{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 10,
  "verse_no": 24,
  "ar_text": "إِنَّمَا مَثَلُ الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا كَمَاءٍ أَنْزَلْنَاهُ مِنَ السَّمَاءِ فَاخْتَلَطَ بِهِ نَبَاتُ الْأَرْضِ مِمَّا يَأْكُلُ النَّاسُ وَالْأَنْعَامُ حَتَّىٰ إِذَا أَخَذَتِ الْأَرْضُ زُخْرُفَهَا وَازَّيَّنَتْ وَظَنَّ أَهْلُهَا أَنَّهُمْ قَادِرُونَ عَلَيْهَا أَتَاهَا أَمْرُنَا لَيْلًا أَوْ نَهَارًا فَجَعَلْنَاهَا حَصِيدًا كَأَنْ لَمْ تَغْنَ بِالْأَمْسِ كَذَٰلِكَ نُفَصِّلُ الْآيَاتِ لِقَوْمٍ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "إنما مثل الحياة الدنيا كماء أنزلناه من السماء فاختلط به نبات الأرض مما يأكل الناس والأنعام حتى إذا أخذت الأرض زخرفها وازينت وظن أهلها أنهم قادرون عليها أتاها أمرنا ليلا أو نهارا فجعلناها حصيدا كأن لم تغن بالأمس كذلك نفصل الآيات لقوم يتفكرون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "The likeness of the life of the present is as the rain which We send down from the skies: by its mingling arises the produce of the earth- which provides food for men and animals: (It grows) till the earth is clad with its golden ornaments and is decked out (in beauty): the people to whom it belongs think they have all powers of disposal over it: There reaches it Our command by night or by day, and We make it like a harvest clean-mown, as if it had not flourished only the day before! thus do We explain the Signs in detail for those who reflect.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "The similitude of the life of the world is only as water which We send down from the sky, then the earth's growth of that which men and cattle eat mingleth with it till, when the earth hath taken on her ornaments and is embellished, and her people deem that they are masters of her, Our commandment cometh by night or by day and We make it as reaped corn as if it had not flourished yesterday. Thus do we expound the revelations for people who reflect.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "The likeness of this world's life is only as water which We send down from the cloud, then the herbage of the earth of which men and cattle eat grows luxuriantly thereby, until when the earth puts on its golden raiment and it becomes garnished, and its people think that they have power over it, Our command comes to it, by night or by day, so We render it as reaped seed; produce, as though it had not been in existence yesterday; thus do We make clear the communications for a people who reflect.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Verily the likeness of (this) worldly life is as the water (rain) which We send down from the sky, so by it arises the intermingled produce of the earth of which men and cattle eat until when the earth is clad with its adornments and is beautified, and its people think that they have all the powers of disposal over it, Our Command reaches it by night or by day and We make it like a clean-mown harvest, as if it had not flourished yesterday! Thus do We explain the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, laws, etc.) in detail for the people who reflect.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "The similitude of the life of the world is only as the rain which We send down from heaven, wherewith maingleth the growth of the earth, of which men and cattle eat, until, when the earth putteth on her oranament and is adorned, and the inhabitants thereof imgine that they are potent over it, there cometh unto it Our command by night or by day, then We make it stubble as though it had not flourished yesterday. Thus We detail the signs unto a people who ponder.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "This present life is like the water We send down from the sky. The plants of the earth mix with it and from it mankind and cattle eat; then when the earth has become lush and adorned, its inhabitants think they have power over it, Our command comes upon it by night or day, and We cause it to be stubble, just as though it had not flourished the day before. In this way We distinguish Our verses for those who reflect.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "The likeness of the present life is only as water that We send down from the heaven, with which mingle the plants of the earth, whereof men and cattle eat; till, when the earth takes its glitter and adorns itself, and its people think that they have power over it, Our command comes upon it by night or by day, and We make it stubble, as if nothing was there yesterday. So We explain the Signs for a people who ponder.",
  "en_tr_sher": "The likeness of the present life is only as water which We sent down from the clouds, then there mingles with it the produce of the earth, of which men and cattle eat till when the earth takes on its ornament and looks beautiful and its owners think that they have full power over it, there comes to it by Our command by night or by day and We render it like a mown down field, as if nothing existed there the day before. Thus do We expound the Signs for a people who reflect.",
  "en_tr_asad": "The parable of the life of this world is but that of rain which We send down from the sky, and which is absorbed by the plants of the earth whereof men and animals draw nourishment, until &ndash; when the earth has assumed its artful adornment and has been embellished, and they who dwell on it believe that they have gained mastery over it &ndash; there comes down upon it Our judgment, by night or by day, and We cause it to become [like] a field mown down, as if there had been no yesterday.\nThus clearly do We spell out these messages unto people who think!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "The likeness of this present life is as water that We send down out of heaven, and the plants of the earth mingle with it whereof men and cattle eat, till, when the earth has taken on its glitter and has decked itself fair, and its inhabitants think they have power over it, Our command comes upon it by night or day, and We make it stubble, as though yesterday it flourished not. Even so We distinguish the signs for a people who reflect.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "The example of the life of this world (which has enamoured you into becoming heedless to Our signs) is that of water that We sent down from the heaven which causes the vegetation of the earth, which sustains men and cattle, to grow luxuriantly. But when the earth took on its golden raiment and became well adorned and the owners believed that they had full control over their lands Our command came upon them by night or by day, and We convened it into a stubble, as though it had not blossomed yesterday. Thus do We expound the signs for a people who reflect.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "The likeness of the life of the present is as the rain which We send down from the skies:{{1412}} by its mingling arises the produce of the earth- which provides food for men and animals: (It grows) till the earth is clad with its golden ornaments and is decked out (in beauty): the people to whom it belongs think they have all powers of disposal over it: There reaches it Our command by night or by day, and We make it like a harvest clean-mown, as if it had not flourished only the day before! thus do We explain the Signs in detail for those who reflect.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "The parable of the life of this world is but that of rain which We send down from the sky, and which is absorbed by the plants of the earth{{37}} whereof men and animals draw nourishment, until - when the earth has assumed its artful adornment and has been embellished, and they who dwell on it believe that they have gained mastery over it{{38}} - there comes down upon it Our judgment, by night or by day, and We cause it to become [like] a field mown down, as if there had been no yesterday.{{39}} Thus clearly do We spell out these messages unto people who think!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1412",
      "note": "Another beautiful Parable, explaining the nature of our present life. The rain comes down in drops and mingles with the earth. Through it, by Allah's matchless artistry, the womb of the earth is made fruitful. All kinds of good, useful, and beautiful grains, vegetables, and fruits are produced for men and animals. The earth is covered in its bravery of green and gold and all kinds of colours. Perhaps the \"owner\" takes all the credit to himself, and thinks that this will last eternally. A hailstorm or blast, a frost or a volcanic eruption, comes and destroys it, or it may be even normally, that the time of harvest comes, and the fields and orchards are stripped bare by some blight or disease. Where is the beauty and bravery of yesterday? All that is left is dust and ashes! What more can we get from this physical material life?"
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "37",
      "note": "Lit., \"with which the plants of the earth mingle\"."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "38",
      "note": "I.e., they come to believe that they have gained \"mastery over nature\", with no conceivable limits to what they may yet achieve. It is to be borne in mind that the term zukhruf bears almost invariably a connotation of artificiality - a connotation which in this case is communicated to the subsequent verb izzayyanat. Thus, the whole of the above parabolic sentence may be understood as alluding to the artificial, illusory \"adornment\" brought about by man's technological efforts, not in collaboration with nature but, rather, in hostile \"confrontation\" with it."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "39",
      "note": "Lit., \"as if it had not been in existence yesterday\": a phrase used in classical Arabic to describe something that has entirely disappeared or perished (Taj al-Arus)."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Another beautiful Parable, explaining the nature of our present life. The rain comes down in drops and mingles with the earth. Through it, by Allah's matchless artistry, the womb of the earth is made fruitful. All kinds of good, useful, and beautiful grains, vegetables, and fruits are produced for men and animals. The earth is covered in its bravery of green and gold and all kinds of colours. Perhaps the \"owner\" takes all the credit to himself, and thinks that this will last eternally. A hailstorm or blast, a frost or a volcanic eruption, comes and destroys it, or it may be even normally, that the time of harvest comes, and the fields and orchards are stripped bare by some blight or disease. Where is the beauty and bravery of yesterday? All that is left is dust and ashes! What more can we get from this physical material life?",
  "en_snotes_asad": "Lit., \"with which the plants of the earth mingle\". I.e., they come to believe that they have gained \"mastery over nature\", with no conceivable limits to what they may yet achieve. It is to be borne in mind that the term zukhruf bears almost invariably a connotation of artificiality - a connotation which in this case is communicated to the subsequent verb izzayyanat. Thus, the whole of the above parabolic sentence may be understood as alluding to the artificial, illusory \"adornment\" brought about by man's technological efforts, not in collaboration with nature but, rather, in hostile \"confrontation\" with it. Lit., \"as if it had not been in existence yesterday\": a phrase used in classical Arabic to describe something that has entirely disappeared or perished (Taj al-Arus).",
  "keywords": null
}