{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 145,
  "ar_text": "وَلَئِنْ أَتَيْتَ الَّذِينَ أُوتُوا الْكِتَابَ بِكُلِّ آيَةٍ مَا تَبِعُوا قِبْلَتَكَ وَمَا أَنْتَ بِتَابِعٍ قِبْلَتَهُمْ وَمَا بَعْضُهُمْ بِتَابِعٍ قِبْلَةَ بَعْضٍ وَلَئِنِ اتَّبَعْتَ أَهْوَاءَهُمْ مِنْ بَعْدِ مَا جَاءَكَ مِنَ الْعِلْمِ إِنَّكَ إِذًا لَمِنَ الظَّالِمِينَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولئن أتيت الذين أوتوا الكتاب بكل آية ما تبعوا قبلتك وما أنت بتابع قبلتهم وما بعضهم بتابع قبلة بعض ولئن اتبعت أهواءهم من بعد ما جاءك من العلم إنك إذا لمن الظالمين",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Even if thou wert to bring to the people of the Book all the Signs (together), they would not follow Thy Qibla; nor art thou going to follow their Qibla; nor indeed will they follow each other's Qibla. If thou after the knowledge hath reached thee, Wert to follow their (vain) desires,-then wert thou Indeed (clearly) in the wrong.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And even if thou broughtest unto those who have received the Scripture all kinds of portents, they would not follow thy qiblah, nor canst thou be a follower of their qiblah; nor are some of them followers of the qiblah of others. And if thou shouldst follow their desires after the knowledge which hath come unto thee, then surely wert thou of the evil-doers.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And even if you bring to those who have been given the Book every sign they would not follow your qiblah, nor can you be a follower of their qiblah, neither are they the followers of each other's qiblah, and if you follow their desires after the knowledge that has come to you, then you shall most surely be among the unjust.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And even if you were to bring to the people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians) all the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.), they would not follow your Qiblah (prayer direction), nor are you going to follow their Qiblah (prayer direction). And they will not follow each other's Qiblah (prayer direction). Verily, if you follow their desires after that which you have received of knowledge (from Allah), then indeed you will be one of the Zalimun (polytheists, wrong-doers, etc.).",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And shouldst thou bring unto those who are vouchsafed the Book every sign, they would not follow thy Qiblah, neither art thou to be a follower of their Qiblah; nor doth one part of them follow the Qiblah of the other. And shouldst thou follow their desires, after that which hath come unto thee of the knowledge, then verily thou wilt become one of the wrong-doers.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "But even if you brought those to whom the Book had been given every proof, they would not accept your direction, nor would you accept theirs; nor would any of them accept the direction of the other. If after all the knowledge you have been given you yield to their desires, then you will surely be among the harmdoers.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Yet even if thou shouldst bring every sign to those who were given the Book, they will not follow thy Qibla, and thou wilt not follow their Qibla, nor will they follow one another's Qibla. And if thou followest their fancies, after the knowledge that has come to thee, then thou shalt be among the wrong-doers.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And even if thou shouldst bring every Sign to those who have been given the Book, they would not follow thy Qiblah nor wouldst thou follow their Qiblah, nor would some of them follow the Qiblah of others. And if thou shouldst follow their desires after the knowledge that has come to thee, then thou shalt surely be of the transgressors.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And yet, even if thou wert to place all evidence before those who have been vouchsafed earlier revelation, they would not follow thy direction of prayer; and neither mayest thou follow their direction of prayer, nor even do they follow one another's direction. And if thou shouldst follow their errant views after all the knowledge that has come unto thee, thou wouldst surely be among the evildoers.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Yet if thou shouldst bring to those that have been given the Book every sign, they will not follow thy direction; thou art not a follower of their direction, neither are they followers of one anothers direction. If thou followest their caprices, after the knowledge that has come to thee, then thou wilt surely be among the evildoers",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Even though you may show every kind of sign to the people of the Book, they will not adopt your qiblah, nor are you going to adopt their qiblah; nor will any of them adopt the qiblah of the other; therefore if, after the knowledge you have received, you follow their desires, you will certainly be counted among the transgressors.{{147}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Even if thou wert to bring to the people of the Book all the Signs (together), they would not follow Thy Qiblah; nor art thou going to follow their Qiblah; nor indeed will they follow{{150}} each other?s Qiblah. If thou after the knowledge hath reached thee, Wert to follow their (vain) desires,-then wert thou Indeed (clearly) in the wrong.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And yet, even if thou wert to place all evidence{{121}} before those who have been vouchsafed earlier revelation, they would not follow thy direction of prayer; and neither mayest thou follow their direction of prayer, nor even do they follow one another's direction. And if thou shouldst follow their errant views after all the knowledge that has come unto thee thou wouldst surely be among the evildoers.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "150",
      "note": "See n. 147 to 2:144 above. The Jews and Christians had a glimmering of the Qiblah idea, but in their attitude of self-sufficiency they were not likely to welcome the Qiblah idea as perfected in Islam. Nor is Islam, after the fuller knowledge which it has received, likely to revert to the uncertain, imperfect, and varying ideas of orientation held previously. A very clear glimpse of the old Jewish practice in the matter of the Qiblah and the importance attached to it is found in the book of Daniel. 6:10. Daniel was a righteous man of princely lineage and lived about 506-538 B.C. He was carried off to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar, the Assyrian, but was still living when Assyria was overthrown by the Medes and Persians. In spite of the \"captivity\" of the Jews, Daniel enjoyed the highest offices of state at Babylon, but he was ever true to Jerusalem. His enemies (under the Persian monarch) got a penal law passed against any one who \"asked a petition of any god or man for 30 days\" except the Persian King. But Daniel continued true to Jerusalem. \"His windows being open in his chamber to wards Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.\""
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "121",
      "note": "Lit., \"every sign (ayah)\", i.e., of its being a revealed commandment."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "See n. 147 to 2:144 above. The Jews and Christians had a glimmering of the Qiblah idea, but in their attitude of self-sufficiency they were not likely to welcome the Qiblah idea as perfected in Islam. Nor is Islam, after the fuller knowledge which it has received, likely to revert to the uncertain, imperfect, and varying ideas of orientation held previously. A very clear glimpse of the old Jewish practice in the matter of the Qiblah and the importance attached to it is found in the book of Daniel. 6:10. Daniel was a righteous man of princely lineage and lived about 506-538 B.C. He was carried off to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar, the Assyrian, but was still living when Assyria was overthrown by the Medes and Persians. In spite of the \"captivity\" of the Jews, Daniel enjoyed the highest offices of state at Babylon, but he was ever true to Jerusalem. His enemies (under the Persian monarch) got a penal law passed against any one who \"asked a petition of any god or man for 30 days\" except the Persian King. But Daniel continued true to Jerusalem. \"His windows being open in his chamber to wards Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.\"",
  "en_snotes_asad": "Lit., \"every sign (ayah)\", i.e., of its being a revealed commandment.",
  "keywords": null
}