{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 217,
  "ar_text": "يَسْأَلُونَكَ عَنِ الشَّهْرِ الْحَرَامِ قِتَالٍ فِيهِ قُلْ قِتَالٌ فِيهِ كَبِيرٌ وَصَدٌّ عَنْ سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ وَكُفْرٌ بِهِ وَالْمَسْجِدِ الْحَرَامِ وَإِخْرَاجُ أَهْلِهِ مِنْهُ أَكْبَرُ عِنْدَ اللَّهِ وَالْفِتْنَةُ أَكْبَرُ مِنَ الْقَتْلِ وَلَا يَزَالُونَ يُقَاتِلُونَكُمْ حَتَّىٰ يَرُدُّوكُمْ عَنْ دِينِكُمْ إِنِ اسْتَطَاعُوا وَمَنْ يَرْتَدِدْ مِنْكُمْ عَنْ دِينِهِ فَيَمُتْ وَهُوَ كَافِرٌ فَأُولَٰئِكَ حَبِطَتْ أَعْمَالُهُمْ فِي الدُّنْيَا وَالْآخِرَةِ وَأُولَٰئِكَ أَصْحَابُ النَّارِ هُمْ فِيهَا خَالِدُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "يسألونك عن الشهر الحرام قتال فيه قل قتال فيه كبير وصد عن سبيل الله وكفر به والمسجد الحرام وإخراج أهله منه أكبر عند الله والفتنة أكبر من القتل ولا يزالون يقاتلونكم حتى يردوكم عن دينكم إن استطاعوا ومن يرتدد منكم عن دينه فيمت وهو كافر فأولئك حبطت أعمالهم في الدنيا والآخرة وأولئك أصحاب النار هم فيها خالدون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "They ask thee concerning fighting in the Prohibited Month. Say: \"Fighting therein is a grave (offence); but graver is it in the sight of Allah to prevent access to the path of Allah, to deny Him, to prevent access to the Sacred Mosque, and drive out its members.\" Tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. Nor will they cease fighting you until they turn you back from your faith if they can. And if any of you Turn back from their faith and die in unbelief, their works will bear no fruit in this life and in the Hereafter; they will be companions of the Fire and will abide therein.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "They question thee (O Muhammad) with regard to warfare in the sacred month. Say: Warfare therein is a great (transgression), but to turn (men) from the way of Allah, and to disbelieve in Him and in the Inviolable Place of Worship, and to expel His people thence, is a greater with Allah; for persecution is worse than killing. And they will not cease from fighting against you till they have made you renegades from your religion, if they can. And whoso becometh a renegade and dieth in his disbelief: such are they whose works have fallen both in the world and the Hereafter. Such are rightful owners of the Fire: they will abide therein.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "They ask you concerning the sacred month about fighting in it. Say: Fighting in it is a grave matter, and hindering (men) from Allah's way and denying Him, and (hindering men from) the Sacred Mosque and turning its people out of it, are still graver with Allah, and persecution is graver than slaughter; and they will not cease fighting with you until they turn you back from your religion, if they can; and whoever of you turns back from his religion, then he dies while an unbeliever-- these it is whose works shall go for nothing in this world and the hereafter, and they are the inmates of the fire; therein they shall abide.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "They ask you concerning fighting in the Sacred Months (i.e. 1st, 7th, 11th and 12th months of the Islamic calendar). Say, \"Fighting therein is a great (transgression) but a greater (transgression) with Allah is to prevent mankind from following the Way of Allah, to disbelieve in Him, to prevent access to Al-Masjid-al-Haram (at Makkah), and to drive out its inhabitants, and Al-Fitnah is worse than killing. And they will never cease fighting you until they turn you back from your religion (Islamic Monotheism) if they can. And whosoever of you turns back from his religion and dies as a disbeliever, then his deeds will be lost in this life and in the Hereafter, and they will be the dwellers of the Fire. They will abide therein forever.\"",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "They ask thee of the sacred month, of fighting therein. Say thou; fighting therein is grievous; and hindering people from the way of Allah and unbelief in Him and in the sanctity of the Sacred Mosque and driving out its dwellers therefrom are more grievous with Allah, and such temptation is far more grievous than that slaughter. And they will not cease fighting you so that they might make you apostatize from your religion, if they can. And whosoever of you apostatizeth from his faith and dieth an Infidel, then these it is whose works shall be of none effect in this world and the Hereafter, and they shall be the fellows of the Fire ; therein they shall be abiders.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "They ask you about the Sacred Month and fighting in it. Say: 'To fight in this month is a grave (offense); but to bar others from the Path of Allah, and disbelief in Him, and the Holy Mosque, and to expel its inhabitants from it is greater with Allah. Dissension is greater than killing. ' They will not cease to fight against you until they force you to renounce your religion, if they are able. But whosoever of you recants from his religion and dies an unbeliever, their works shall be annulled in this world and in the Everlasting Life, and those shall be the companions of Hell, and there they shall live for ever.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "They ask thee concerning fighting in the Sacred Month. Say, `fighting in it is a grievous thing, but barring from God's way and from the Sacred Mosque, and disbelieving in Him, and expelling its people from it, is more grievous in the sight of God; and state of turmoil is more grievous than killing. And they will not cease fighting with you, until they turn you from your religion, if they can; but any of you who turns from his religion and dies as unbeliever, their works have failed in this world and the Hereafter; and those are the people of the Fire; they will dwell therein forever.",
  "en_tr_sher": "They ask thee about fighting in the Sacred Month. Say, 'Fighting therein is a heinous thing, but to hinder men from the way of God, and to be ungrateful to Him, and to hinder men from the Sacred Mosque, and to turn out its people therefrom, is more heinous in the sight of God; and persecution is worst than killing.' And they will not cease fighting you until they turn you back from your Faith, if they can. And whoso from among you turns back from his Faith and dies while he is a disbeliever, it is they whose works shall be vain in this world and in the next. These are the inmates of the Fire and therein shall they abide.",
  "en_tr_asad": "They will ask thee about fighting in the sacred month. Say: \"Fighting in it is an awesome thing; but turning men away from the path of God and denying Him, and [turning them away from] the Inviolable House of Worship and expelling its people therefrom &ndash; [all this] is yet more awesome in the sight of God, since oppression is more awesome than killing.\" \n[Your enemies] will not cease to fight against you till they have turned you away from your faith, if they can. But if any of you should turn away from his faith and die as a denier of the truth &ndash; these it is whose works will go for nought in this world and in the life to come; and these it is who are destined for the fire, therein to abide.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "They will question thee concerning the holy month, and fighting in it. Say: Fighting in it is a heinous thing, but to bar from Gods way, and disbelief in Him, and the Holy Mosque, and to expel its people from it -- that is more heinous in Gods sight; and persecution is more heinous than slaying. They will not cease to fight with you, till they turn you from your religion, if they are able; and whosoever of you turns from his religion, and dies disbelieving -- their works have failed in this world and the next; those are the inhabitants of the Fire; therein they shall dwell forever.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "They ask you (O Muhammad) concerning warfare in the prohibited month. Say, \"Fighting is a heinous offence in this month, but in the sight of Allah it is far worse to hinder people from the Way of Allah and to deny Him and to prevent His worshippers from visiting the Masjid al-Haram, and to expel the dwellers of the sacred place from it; and persecution is far worse than bloodshed.{{232}} As for them, they will go on fighting with you till they succeed in turning you away from your Faith, if they can. But (note it well that) whosoever renounces his Faith and dies a renegade, all his works shall be fruitless both in this world and in the Hereafter. All such people deserve the Fire and shall abide in Hell for ever.{{233}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "They ask thee concerning fighting in the Prohibited Month{{237}}. Say: \"Fighting therein is a grave (offence); but graver is it in the sight of Allah to prevent access to the path of Allah, to deny Him, to prevent access to the Sacred Mosque, and drive out its members{{238}}.\" Tumult and oppression{{239}} are worse than slaughter. Nor will they cease fighting you until they turn you back from your faith if they can. And if any of you Turn back from their faith and die in unbelief, their works will bear no fruit in this life and in the Hereafter; they will be companions of the Fire and will abide therein.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "They will ask thee about fighting in the sacred month.{{202}} Say: \"Fighting in it is an awesome thing; but turning men away from the path of God and denying Him, and [turning them away from] the Inviolable House of Worship and expelling its people therefrom - [all this] is yet more awesome in the sight of God, since oppression is more awesome than killing.\" [Your enemies] will not cease to fight against you till they have turned you away from your faith, if they can. But if any of you should turn away from his faith and die as a denier of the truth - these it is whose works will go for nought in this world and in the life to come; and these it is who are destined for the fire, therein to abide.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "237",
      "note": "Prohibited Month; See 2:194, n. 209."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "238",
      "note": "The intolerance and persecution of the Pagan clique at Makkah caused untold hardships to the Messenger of Islam and his early disciples. They bore all with meekness and long-suffering patience until the Holy One permitted them to take up arms in self-defence. Then they were twitted with breach of the custom about Prohibited Months, though they were driven to fight during that period against their own feeling in self defence. But their enemies not only forced them to engage in actual warfare, but interfered with their conscience, persecuted them and their families, openly insulted and denied Allah, kept out the Muslims from the Sacred Mosque, and exiled them. Such violence and intolerance are deservedly called worse than slaughter."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "239",
      "note": "Cf. 2:191, 193, where a similar phrase occurs, Fitnah = trial, temptation, as in 2:102; or tumult, sedition, oppression, as here; M.MA., H.G.S., and M.P. translate \"persecution\" in this passage, which is also legitimate, seeing that persecution is the suppression of some opinion by violence, force, or threats."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "202",
      "note": "For an explanation of the \"sacred months\", see note 171 above."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Prohibited Month; See 2:194, n. 209. The intolerance and persecution of the Pagan clique at Makkah caused untold hardships to the Messenger of Islam and his early disciples. They bore all with meekness and long-suffering patience until the Holy One permitted them to take up arms in self-defence. Then they were twitted with breach of the custom about Prohibited Months, though they were driven to fight during that period against their own feeling in self defence. But their enemies not only forced them to engage in actual warfare, but interfered with their conscience, persecuted them and their families, openly insulted and denied Allah, kept out the Muslims from the Sacred Mosque, and exiled them. Such violence and intolerance are deservedly called worse than slaughter. Cf. 2:191, 193, where a similar phrase occurs, Fitnah = trial, temptation, as in 2:102; or tumult, sedition, oppression, as here; M.MA., H.G.S., and M.P. translate \"persecution\" in this passage, which is also legitimate, seeing that persecution is the suppression of some opinion by violence, force, or threats.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "For an explanation of the \"sacred months\", see note 171 above.",
  "keywords": null
}