{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 232,
  "ar_text": "وَإِذَا طَلَّقْتُمُ النِّسَاءَ فَبَلَغْنَ أَجَلَهُنَّ فَلَا تَعْضُلُوهُنَّ أَنْ يَنْكِحْنَ أَزْوَاجَهُنَّ إِذَا تَرَاضَوْا بَيْنَهُمْ بِالْمَعْرُوفِ ذَٰلِكَ يُوعَظُ بِهِ مَنْ كَانَ مِنْكُمْ يُؤْمِنُ بِاللَّهِ وَالْيَوْمِ الْآخِرِ ذَٰلِكُمْ أَزْكَىٰ لَكُمْ وَأَطْهَرُ وَاللَّهُ يَعْلَمُ وَأَنْتُمْ لَا تَعْلَمُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وإذا طلقتم النساء فبلغن أجلهن فلا تعضلوهن أن ينكحن أزواجهن إذا تراضوا بينهم بالمعروف ذلك يوعظ به من كان منكم يؤمن بالله واليوم الآخر ذلكم أزكى لكم وأطهر والله يعلم وأنتم لا تعلمون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "When ye divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their ('Iddat), do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands, if they mutually agree on equitable terms. This instruction is for all amongst you, who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is (the course Making for) most virtue and purity amongst you and Allah knows, and ye know not.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And when ye have divorced women and they reach their term, place not difficulties in the way of their marrying their husbands if it is agreed between them in kindness. This is an admonition for him among you who believeth in Allah and the Last Day. That is more virtuous for you, and cleaner. Allah knoweth; ye know not.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And when you have divorced women and they have ended-- their term (of waiting), then do not prevent them from marrying their husbands when they agree among themselves in a lawful manner; with this is admonished he among you who believes in Allah and the last day, this is more profitable and purer for you; and Allah knows while you do not know.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And when you have divorced women and they have fulfilled the term of their prescribed period, do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands, if they mutually agree on reasonable basis. This (instruction) is an admonition for him among you who believes in Allah and the Last Day. That is more virtuous and purer for you. Allah knows and you know not.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And when ye have divorced women and they have attained their period;  straiten them not so that they wed not their husbands when they have agreed between themselves reputably; hereby is exhorted he among you who believeth in Allah and the Last Day: this is cleanest for you and purest. Allah knoweth and ye know not.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "When you divorce women, and they have reached their term, do not restrain them from marrying their (future) husbands, when they have agreed together with kindness. That is an exhortation for whosoever of you believes in Allah and the Last Day. That is cleaner and purer for you. Allah knows, and you do not know.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And when you divorce women and they have reached their term, do not debar them from marrying their mates, when they have agreed together in the desirable way; with that is admonished whoso out of you believes in God and the Last Day; that is purer and cleaner for you; and God knows and you do not know.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And when you divorce women and they reach the end of their period, prevent them not from marrying their husbands, if they agree between themselves in a decent manner. This an admonition for him among you who believes in God and the Last Day. It is more blessed for you and purer; and God knows but you know not.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And when you divorce women, and they have come to the end of their waiting-term, hinder them not from marrying other men if they have agreed with each other in a fair manner. This is an admonition unto every one of you who believes in God and the Last Day; it is the most virtuous [way] for you, and the cleanest. And God knows, whereas you do not know.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "When you divorce women, and they have reached their term, do not debar them from marrying their husbands, when they have agreed together honourably. That is an admonition for whoso of you believes in God and the Last Day; that is cleaner and purer for you; God knows, and you know not.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "When you have divorced your wives absolutely and they have completed their prescribed term, then you should not prevent them from marrying their prospective husbands, if they mutually agree to marry each other in a lawful way.{{256}} You are enjoined not to commit such an offence, if you sincerely believe in Allah and the Last Day. It is most decent and pure for you to desist from this; Allah knows and you do not know.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "When ye divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their (?Iddat), do not prevent them{{265}} from marrying persons of their choice, if they mutually agree on equitable terms. This instruction is for all amongst you, who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is (the course Making for) most virtue and purity amongst you and Allah knows, and ye know not.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And when you divorce women, and they have come to the end of their waiting-term, hinder them not from marrying other men if they have agreed with each other in a fair manner. This is an admonition unto every one of you who believes in God and the Last Day; it is the most virtuous [way] for you, and the cleanest. And God knows, whereas you do not know.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "265",
      "note": "The termination of a marriage bond is a most serious matter for family and social life. And every lawful device is approved which can equitably bring back those who have lived together, provided only there is mutual love and they can live on honourable terms with each other. If these conditions are fulfilled, it is not right for outsiders to prevent or hinder reunion. They may be swayed by property or other considerations. This verse was occasioned by an actual case that was referred to the Prophet in his lifetime."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The termination of a marriage bond is a most serious matter for family and social life. And every lawful device is approved which can equitably bring back those who have lived together, provided only there is mutual love and they can live on honourable terms with each other. If these conditions are fulfilled, it is not right for outsiders to prevent or hinder reunion. They may be swayed by property or other considerations. This verse was occasioned by an actual case that was referred to the Prophet in his lifetime.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}