{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 231,
  "ar_text": "وَإِذَا طَلَّقْتُمُ النِّسَاءَ فَبَلَغْنَ أَجَلَهُنَّ فَأَمْسِكُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ أَوْ سَرِّحُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ وَلَا تُمْسِكُوهُنَّ ضِرَارًا لِتَعْتَدُوا وَمَنْ يَفْعَلْ ذَٰلِكَ فَقَدْ ظَلَمَ نَفْسَهُ وَلَا تَتَّخِذُوا آيَاتِ اللَّهِ هُزُوًا وَاذْكُرُوا نِعْمَتَ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكُمْ وَمَا أَنْزَلَ عَلَيْكُمْ مِنَ الْكِتَابِ وَالْحِكْمَةِ يَعِظُكُمْ بِهِ وَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ وَاعْلَمُوا أَنَّ اللَّهَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عَلِيمٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وإذا طلقتم النساء فبلغن أجلهن فأمسكوهن بمعروف أو سرحوهن بمعروف ولا تمسكوهن ضرارا لتعتدوا ومن يفعل ذلك فقد ظلم نفسه ولا تتخذوا آيات الله هزوا واذكروا نعمت الله عليكم وما أنزل عليكم من الكتاب والحكمة يعظكم به واتقوا الله واعلموا أن الله بكل شيء عليم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "When ye divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their ('Iddat), either take them back on equitable terms or set them free on equitable terms; but do not take them back to injure them, (or) to take undue advantage; if any one does that; He wrongs his own soul. Do not treat Allah's Signs as a jest, but solemnly rehearse Allah's favours on you, and the fact that He sent down to you the Book and Wisdom, for your instruction. And fear Allah, and know that Allah is well acquainted with all things.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "When ye have divorced women, and they have reached their term, then retain them in kindness or release them in kindness. Retain them not to their hurt so that ye transgress (the limits). He who doeth that hath wronged his soul. Make not the revelations of Allah a laughing-stock (by your behaviour), but remember Allah's grace upon you and that which He hath revealed unto you of the Scripture and of wisdom, whereby He doth exhort you. Observe your duty to Allah and know that Allah is Aware of all things.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And when you divorce women and they reach their prescribed time, then either retain them in good fellowship or set them free with liberality, and do not retain them for injury, so that you exceed the limits, and whoever does this, he indeed is unjust to his own soul; and do not take Allah's communications for a mockery, and remember the favor of Allah upon you, and that which He has revealed to you of the Book and the Wisdom, admonishing you thereby; and be careful (of your duty to) Allah, and know that Allah is the Knower of all things.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And when you have divorced women and they have fulfilled the term of their prescribed period, either take them back on reasonable basis or set them free on reasonable basis. But do not take them back to hurt them, and whoever does that, then he has wronged himself. And treat not the Verses (Laws) of Allah as a jest, but remember Allah's Favours on you (i.e. Islam), and that which He has sent down to you of the Book (i.e. the Qur'an) and Al-Hikmah (the Prophet's Sunnah - legal ways - Islamic jurisprudence, etc.) whereby He instructs you. And fear Allah, and know that Allah is All-Aware of everything.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And when ye have divorced your women, and they have attained their period, then either retain them reputably or let them off kindly; and retain them not to their hurt that ye may trespass; and whosoever doth this assuredly wrongeth his soul. And hold not Allah's commandments in mockery and remember Allah's favour upon you, and that he hath sent down unto you the Book and the wisdom wherewith He exhorted you; and fear Allah, and know that verily Allah is of everything the Knower",
  "en_tr_qarib": "When you have divorced women and they have reached the end of their waiting period, either keep them in kindness or let them go with kindness. But you shall not keep them, being harmful, in order to transgress. Whoever does this wrongs himself. Do not take the verses of Allah in mockery. Remember the favor of Allah upon you, and what He sent down to you from the Book and Wisdom to exhort you. Fear Allah and know that He has knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And when you divorce women and they reach their term, then retain them in a desirable way, or let them off in a desirable way; but do not retain them to harm (them) that you exceed limits; and whoso does that, he has wronged himself; and do not take God's signs in mockery; and remember God's blessing on you and what He has sent down upon you of the Book and the Wisdom, by which He admonishes you; and fear God and know that God has knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And when you divorce women and they approach the end of their appointed period, then either retain them in a becoming manner or send them away in a becoming manner; but retain them not wrongfully so that you may transgress against them. And whoso does that, surely wrongs his own soul. And do not make a jest of the commandments of God, and remember the favour of God upon you and the book and the Wisdom which He has sent down to you, whereby He exhorts you. And fear God and know that God knows all things well",
  "en_tr_asad": "And so, when you divorce women and they are about to reach the end of their waiting-term, then either retain them in a fair manner or let them go in a fair manner. But do not retain them against their will in order to hurt [them]: for he who does so sins indeed against himself. \nAnd do not take [these] messages of God in a frivolous spirit; and remember the blessings with which God has graced you, and all the revelation and the wisdom which He has bestowed on you from on high in order to admonish you thereby; and remain conscious of God, and know that God has full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "When you divorce women, and they have reached their term, then retain them honourably or set them free honourably; do not retain them by force, to transgress; whoever does that has wronged himself. Take not Gods signs in mockery, and remember Gods blessing upon you, and the Book and the Wisdom He has sent down on you, to admonish you. And fear God, and know that God has knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "And when you have divorced your wives and they are about to complete their prescribed term, then either retain them gracefully or release them generously. It is transgression to retain them merely for harassment; and whoever' does that indeed wrongs his own self.{{254}} Do not play with Allah's Commandments, and remember that Allah has blessed you with a great favour. He admonishes you to show due respect to the Book and the Wisdom He has sent to you.{{255}} Fear Allah and know that He is fully aware of everything.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "When ye divorce{{261}} women, and they are about to fulfil the term of their (?Iddat), either retain them back or let them go; but do not retain them to injure them, (or) to take undue advantage;{{262}} if any one does that; He wrongs his own soul. Do not treat Allah's Signs as a jest,{{263}} but solemnly rehearse{{264}} Allah's favours on you, and the fact that He sent down to you the Book and Wisdom, for your instruction. And fear Allah, and know that Allah is well-acquainted with all things.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And so, when you divorce women and they are about to reach the end of their waiting-term, then either retain them in a fair manner or let them go in a fair manner. But do not retain them against their will in order to hurt [them]: for he who does so sins indeed against himself. And do not take [these] messages of God in a frivolous spirit; and remember the blessings with which God has graced you, and all the revelation and the wisdom which He has bestowed on you from on high in order to admonish you thereby; and remain conscious of God, and know that God has full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "261",
      "note": "If the man takes back his wife after two divorces, he must do so only on equitable terms, i.e., he must not put pressure on the woman to prejudice her rights in any way, and they must live clean and honourable lives, respecting each other's personalities. There are here two conditional clauses: (1) 'when ye divorce women,' and (2) 'when they fulfil their 'Iddah:' followed by two consequential clauses, (3) 'take them back on equitable terms,' or (4) 'set them free with kindness.' The first is connected with the third and the second with the fourth. Therefore if the husband wishes to resume marital relations, he need not wait for 'Iddah. But if he does not so wish, she is free to marry someone else after 'Iddah. For the meaning of 'Iddah see n. 254 above."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "262",
      "note": "Let no one think that the liberty given to him can be used for his own selfish ends. If he uses the law for the injury of the weaker party, his own moral and spiritual nature suffers."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "263",
      "note": "These difficult questions of sex relations are often treated as a joke. But they profoundly affect our individual lives, the lives of our children, and the purity and well-being of the society in which we live. This aspect of the question is reiterated again and again."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "264",
      "note": "Rehearse: dhikr. Cf. 2:151 and n. 156. We are asked to remember in our own minds, and to proclaim and praise, and be proud of Allah's favours on us. His favours are immeasurable: not the least are His Revelations, and the wisdom which He has given to us to enable us to judge and act up to His guidance."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "If the man takes back his wife after two divorces, he must do so only on equitable terms, i.e., he must not put pressure on the woman to prejudice her rights in any way, and they must live clean and honourable lives, respecting each other's personalities. There are here two conditional clauses: (1) 'when ye divorce women,' and (2) 'when they fulfil their 'Iddah:' followed by two consequential clauses, (3) 'take them back on equitable terms,' or (4) 'set them free with kindness.' The first is connected with the third and the second with the fourth. Therefore if the husband wishes to resume marital relations, he need not wait for 'Iddah. But if he does not so wish, she is free to marry someone else after 'Iddah. For the meaning of 'Iddah see n. 254 above. Let no one think that the liberty given to him can be used for his own selfish ends. If he uses the law for the injury of the weaker party, his own moral and spiritual nature suffers. These difficult questions of sex relations are often treated as a joke. But they profoundly affect our individual lives, the lives of our children, and the purity and well-being of the society in which we live. This aspect of the question is reiterated again and again. Rehearse: dhikr. Cf. 2:151 and n. 156. We are asked to remember in our own minds, and to proclaim and praise, and be proud of Allah's favours on us. His favours are immeasurable: not the least are His Revelations, and the wisdom which He has given to us to enable us to judge and act up to His guidance.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}