{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 267,
  "ar_text": "يَا أَيُّهَا الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا أَنْفِقُوا مِنْ طَيِّبَاتِ مَا كَسَبْتُمْ وَمِمَّا أَخْرَجْنَا لَكُمْ مِنَ الْأَرْضِ وَلَا تَيَمَّمُوا الْخَبِيثَ مِنْهُ تُنْفِقُونَ وَلَسْتُمْ بِآخِذِيهِ إِلَّا أَنْ تُغْمِضُوا فِيهِ وَاعْلَمُوا أَنَّ اللَّهَ غَنِيٌّ حَمِيدٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "يا أيها الذين آمنوا أنفقوا من طيبات ما كسبتم ومما أخرجنا لكم من الأرض ولا تيمموا الخبيث منه تنفقون ولستم بآخذيه إلا أن تغمضوا فيه واعلموا أن الله غني حميد",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "O ye who believe! Give of the good things which ye have (honourably) earned, and of the fruits of the earth which We have produced for you, and do not even aim at getting anything which is bad, in order that out of it ye may give away something, when ye yourselves would not receive it except with closed eyes. And know that Allah is Free of all wants, and worthy of all praise.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "O ye who believe! Spend of the good things which ye have earned, and of that which We bring forth from the earth for you, and seek not the bad (with intent) to spend thereof (in charity) when ye would not take it for yourselves save with disdain; and know that Allah is Absolute, Owner of Praise.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "O you who believe! spend (benevolently) of the good things that you earn and or what We have brought forth for you out of the earth, and do not aim at what is bad that you may spend (in alms) of it, while you would not take it yourselves unless you have its price lowered, and know that Allah is Self-sufficient, Praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "O you who believe! Spend of the good things which you have (legally) earned, and of that which We have produced from the earth for you, and do not aim at that which is bad to spend from it, (though) you would not accept it save if you close your eyes and tolerate therein. And know that Allah is Rich (Free of all wants), and Worthy of all praise.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "O O Ye who believe expend out of the good things which! ye have earned and out of that which We have brought forth for you from the earth, and seek not the vile thereof to expend, where as ye yourselves would not accept such except ye connived thereat. And know that Allah Self-Sufficient, Praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Believers, spend of the good you have earned and of that which We have brought out of the earth for you. And do not intend the bad of it for your spending; while you would never take it yourselves, except you closed an eye on it. Know that Allah is Rich, the Praised.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "O Believers, expend of the clean things that you earn and of that We have produced for you from the earth, but do not intend to expend the unclean out of it, for you would not take it except that you close an eye on it; and know that God is All-sufficient, Praise-worthy.",
  "en_tr_sher": "O ye who believe! spend of the good things you have earned, and from what We produce for you from the earth; and seek not what is bad that you may spend out of it when you would not take it yourselves except that you connive at it. And know that God is Self-Sufficient, praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_asad": "O you who have attained to faith! Spend on others out of the good things which you may have acquired, and out of that which We bring forth for you from the earth; and choose not for your spending the bad things which you yourselves would not accept without averting your eyes in disdain. And know that God is self-sufficient, ever to be praised.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "O believers, expend of the good things you have earned, and of that We have produced for you from the earth, and intend not the corrupt of it for your expending; for you would never take it yourselves, except you closed an eye on it; and know that God is All-sufficient, All-laudable.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "O Believers, expend in Allah's Way the best portion of the wealth you have earned and of that We have produced for you from the earth, and do not pick out for charity those worthless things which you yourselves would only accept in disdain by connivance, if they were offered to you. Understand it well that Allah does not stand in need of anything whatsoever and has all the praise-worthy attributes.{{308}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "O ye who believe! Give of the good things which ye have (honourably) earned{{314}}, and of the fruits of the earth which We have produced for you, and do not even aim{{315}} at getting anything which is bad, in order that out of it ye may give away something, when ye yourselves would not receive it except with closed eyes{{316}}. And know that Allah is Free of all wants, and worthy of all praise{{317}}.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "O you who have attained to faith! Spend on others out of the good things which you may have acquired, and out of that which We bring forth for you from the earth; and choose not for your spending the bad things which you yourselves would not accept without averting your eyes in disdain. And know that God is self-sufficient, ever to be praised.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "314",
      "note": "According to the English proverb \"Charity covers a multitude of sins\". Such a sentiment is strongly disapproved in Islam. Charity has value only if (1) something good and valuable is given, (2) which has been honourably earned or acquired by the giver, or (3) which is produced in nature and can be referred to as a bounty of Allah. (1) may include such things as are of use and value to others though they may be of less use to us or superfluous to us on account of our having acquired something more suitable for our station in life: for example, discarded clothes, or an old horse or a used motor car; but if the horse is vicious, or the car engine so far gone that it is dangerous to use, then the gift is worse than useless; it is positively harmful, and the giver is a wrongdoer. (2) applies to fraudulent company-promoters, who earn great credit by giving away in charity some of their ill-gotten gains, or to robbers (even if they call themselves by high-sounding names) who \"rob Peter to pay Paul\". Islam will have nothing to do with tainted property. Its economic code requires that every gain should be honest and honourable. Even \"charity\" would not cover or destroy the taint. (3) lays down a test in cases of a doubtful gain. Can we refer to it as a gift of Allah? Obviously the produce of honest labour or agriculture can be so referred to. In modern commerce and speculation there is much of quite the contrary character, and charity will not cover the taint. Some kinds of art, skill or talent are God-given: it is the highest kind of charity to teach them or share their product. Others are the contrary: they are bad or tainted. In the same way some professions or services may be tainted, if these tend to moral harm."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "315",
      "note": "The preceding note tries to indicate some of the things which are bad or tainted. We should not even think of acquiring them for ourselves, soothing our conscience by the salve that we shall practise charity out of them."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "316",
      "note": "Closed eyes imply disgust or connivance because of some feature which we would not openly acknowledge."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "317",
      "note": "To dedicate tainted things to Allah is a dishonour to Allah. Who is independent of all wants, and who is worthy of all honour and praise. (Cf. 22:64)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "According to the English proverb \"Charity covers a multitude of sins\". Such a sentiment is strongly disapproved in Islam. Charity has value only if (1) something good and valuable is given, (2) which has been honourably earned or acquired by the giver, or (3) which is produced in nature and can be referred to as a bounty of Allah. (1) may include such things as are of use and value to others though they may be of less use to us or superfluous to us on account of our having acquired something more suitable for our station in life: for example, discarded clothes, or an old horse or a used motor car; but if the horse is vicious, or the car engine so far gone that it is dangerous to use, then the gift is worse than useless; it is positively harmful, and the giver is a wrongdoer. (2) applies to fraudulent company-promoters, who earn great credit by giving away in charity some of their ill-gotten gains, or to robbers (even if they call themselves by high-sounding names) who \"rob Peter to pay Paul\". Islam will have nothing to do with tainted property. Its economic code requires that every gain should be honest and honourable. Even \"charity\" would not cover or destroy the taint. (3) lays down a test in cases of a doubtful gain. Can we refer to it as a gift of Allah? Obviously the produce of honest labour or agriculture can be so referred to. In modern commerce and speculation there is much of quite the contrary character, and charity will not cover the taint. Some kinds of art, skill or talent are God-given: it is the highest kind of charity to teach them or share their product. Others are the contrary: they are bad or tainted. In the same way some professions or services may be tainted, if these tend to moral harm. The preceding note tries to indicate some of the things which are bad or tainted. We should not even think of acquiring them for ourselves, soothing our conscience by the salve that we shall practise charity out of them. Closed eyes imply disgust or connivance because of some feature which we would not openly acknowledge. To dedicate tainted things to Allah is a dishonour to Allah. Who is independent of all wants, and who is worthy of all honour and praise. (Cf. 22:64).",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}