{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 266,
  "ar_text": "أَيَوَدُّ أَحَدُكُمْ أَنْ تَكُونَ لَهُ جَنَّةٌ مِنْ نَخِيلٍ وَأَعْنَابٍ تَجْرِي مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْأَنْهَارُ لَهُ فِيهَا مِنْ كُلِّ الثَّمَرَاتِ وَأَصَابَهُ الْكِبَرُ وَلَهُ ذُرِّيَّةٌ ضُعَفَاءُ فَأَصَابَهَا إِعْصَارٌ فِيهِ نَارٌ فَاحْتَرَقَتْ كَذَٰلِكَ يُبَيِّنُ اللَّهُ لَكُمُ الْآيَاتِ لَعَلَّكُمْ تَتَفَكَّرُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "أيود أحدكم أن تكون له جنة من نخيل وأعناب تجري من تحتها الأنهار له فيها من كل الثمرات وأصابه الكبر وله ذرية ضعفاء فأصابها إعصار فيه نار فاحترقت كذلك يبين الله لكم الآيات لعلكم تتفكرون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Does any of you wish that he should have a garden with date-palms and vines and streams flowing underneath, and all kinds of fruit, while he is stricken with old age, and his children are not strong (enough to look after themselves)- that it should be caught in a whirlwind, with fire therein, and be burnt up? Thus doth Allah make clear to you (His) Signs; that ye may consider.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Would any of you like to have a garden of palm-trees and vines, with rivers flowing underneath it, with all kinds of fruit for him therein; and old age hath stricken him and he hath feeble offspring; and a fiery whirlwind striketh it and it is (all) consumed by fire. Thus Allah maketh plain His revelations unto you, in order that ye may give thought.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Does one of you like that he should have a garden of palms and vines with streams flowing beneath it; he has in it all kinds of fruits; and old age has overtaken him and he has weak offspring, when, (lo!) a whirlwind with fire in it smites it so it becomes blasted; thus Allah makes the communications clear to you, that you may reflect.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Would any of you wish to have a garden with date-palms and vines, with rivers flowing underneath, and all kinds of fruits for him therein, while he is striken with old age, and his children are weak (not able to look after themselves), then it is struck with a fiery whirlwind, so that it is burnt? Thus does Allah make clear His Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses) to you that you may give thought.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Fain would any of you that there be for him a garden of date-palms and grape-vines whereunder rivers flow end with every fruit therein for him, and that old age should befall him while he hath a progeny of weaklings, and that a whirlwind wherein is fire should then smite it, so that it is all consumed! In this wise Allah expoundeth unto you the signs that haply ye may ponder.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Would any one of you, being welladvanced in age with helpless children, wish to have a garden of palmtrees, vines and all manner of fruits watered by running streams struck and burned by a fiery whirlwind? Even so, Allah makes plain to you His signs, in order that you give thought.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Would any of you wish to have a garden of palms and vines underneath which rivers flow, and wherein are all manner of fruit for him, and old age hits him, and he has weak off-spring, then a whirlwind with fire in it strikes it, and it is burnt; thus God makes clear to you the signs that you may ponder.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Would any of you desire that there should be for him a garden of palm tress and vines with streams flowing beneath it, and with all kinds of fruit for him therein -- while old age has stricken him and he has weak offspring -- and that a fiery whirlwind should smite it and it be all burnt? Thus does God makes His Signs clear to you that you may reflect.",
  "en_tr_asad": "Would any of you like to have a garden of date-palms and vines, through which running waters flow, and have all manner of fruit therein &ndash; and then be overtaken by old age, with only weak children to [look after] him &ndash; and then [see] it smitten by a fiery whirlwind and utterly scorched? \nIn this way God makes clear His messages unto you, so that you might take thought.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Would any of you wish to have a garden of palms and vines, with rivers flowing beneath it, and all manner of fruit there for him, then old age smites him, and he has seed, but weaklings, then a whirlwind with fire smites it, and it is consumed? So God makes clear the signs to you; haply you will reflect.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Would anyone of you wish that he should have a green garden of palm trees and vines, watered by canals and laden with all sorts of fruit and then it should be consumed by a fiery whirlwind at the very time when he himself has grown very old and his small children are too feeble to earn anything?{{307}} Thus Allah makes His revelations clear and plain to you that you may ponder over them.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Does any of you wish that he should have a garden{{312}} with date-palms and vines and streams flowing underneath, and all kinds of fruit, while he is stricken with old age, and his children are not strong (enough{{313}} to look after themselves)- that it should be caught in a whirlwind, with fire therein, and be burnt up? Thus doth Allah make clear to you (His) Signs; that ye may consider.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "Would any of you like to have a garden of date-palms and vines, through which running waters flow, and have all manner of fruit therein - and then be overtaken by old age, with only weak children to [look after] him - and then [see] it smitten by a fiery whirlwind and utterly scorched? In this way God makes clear His messages unto you, so that you might take thought.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "312",
      "note": "The truly spiritual nature of charity having been explained in three parables (2:261, 264, 265) a fourth parable is now added, explaining its bearing on the whole of our life. Suppose we had a beautiful garden well-watered and fertile, with delightful views of streams, and a haven of rest for mind and body; suppose old age were creeping in on us, and our children were either too young to look after themselves or too feeble in health; how should we feel if a sudden whirlwind came with lightning or fire in its train, and burnt it up, thus blasting the whole of our hopes for the present and for the future, and destroying the result of all our labour and savings in the past? Well, this life of ours is a probation. We may work hard, we may save, we may have good luck. We may make ourselves a goodly pleasance, and have ample means of support for ourselves and our children. A great whirlwind charged with lightning and fire comes and burns up the whole show. We are too old to begin again: our children are too young or feeble to help us to repair the mischief. Our chance is lost, because we did not provide against such a contingency. The whirlwind is the \"wrath to come\": the provision against it is a life of true charity and righteousness, which is the only source of true and lasting happiness in this world and the next. Without it we are subject to all the vicissitudes of this uncertain life. We may even spoil our so-called \"charity\" by insisting on the obligation which others owe to us or by doing some harm, because our motives are not pure."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "313",
      "note": "Not strong (enough): du'afa'u: literally weak, decrepit, infirm, possibly referring to both health and will or character."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The truly spiritual nature of charity having been explained in three parables (2:261, 264, 265) a fourth parable is now added, explaining its bearing on the whole of our life. Suppose we had a beautiful garden well-watered and fertile, with delightful views of streams, and a haven of rest for mind and body; suppose old age were creeping in on us, and our children were either too young to look after themselves or too feeble in health; how should we feel if a sudden whirlwind came with lightning or fire in its train, and burnt it up, thus blasting the whole of our hopes for the present and for the future, and destroying the result of all our labour and savings in the past? Well, this life of ours is a probation. We may work hard, we may save, we may have good luck. We may make ourselves a goodly pleasance, and have ample means of support for ourselves and our children. A great whirlwind charged with lightning and fire comes and burns up the whole show. We are too old to begin again: our children are too young or feeble to help us to repair the mischief. Our chance is lost, because we did not provide against such a contingency. The whirlwind is the \"wrath to come\": the provision against it is a life of true charity and righteousness, which is the only source of true and lasting happiness in this world and the next. Without it we are subject to all the vicissitudes of this uncertain life. We may even spoil our so-called \"charity\" by insisting on the obligation which others owe to us or by doing some harm, because our motives are not pure. Not strong (enough): du'afa'u: literally weak, decrepit, infirm, possibly referring to both health and will or character.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}