{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 60,
  "ar_text": "وَإِذِ اسْتَسْقَىٰ مُوسَىٰ لِقَوْمِهِ فَقُلْنَا اضْرِبْ بِعَصَاكَ الْحَجَرَ فَانْفَجَرَتْ مِنْهُ اثْنَتَا عَشْرَةَ عَيْنًا قَدْ عَلِمَ كُلُّ أُنَاسٍ مَشْرَبَهُمْ كُلُوا وَاشْرَبُوا مِنْ رِزْقِ اللَّهِ وَلَا تَعْثَوْا فِي الْأَرْضِ مُفْسِدِينَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وإذ استسقى موسى لقومه فقلنا اضرب بعصاك الحجر فانفجرت منه اثنتا عشرة عينا قد علم كل أناس مشربهم كلوا واشربوا من رزق الله ولا تعثوا في الأرض مفسدين",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And remember Moses prayed for water for his people; We said: \"Strike the rock with thy staff.\" Then gushed forth therefrom twelve springs. Each group knew its own place for water. So eat and drink of the sustenance provided by Allah, and do no evil nor mischief on the (face of the) earth.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And when Moses asked for water for his people, We said: Smite with thy staff the rock. And there gushed out therefrom twelve springs (so that) each tribe knew their drinking-place. Eat and drink of that which Allah hath provided, and do not act corruptly, making mischief in the earth.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And when Musa prayed for drink for his people, We said: Strike the rock with your staff So there gushed from it twelve springs; each tribe knew its drinking place: Eat and drink of the provisions of Allah and do not act corruptly in the land, making mischief.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And (remember) when Musa (Moses) asked for water for his people, We said: \"Strike the stone with your stick.\" Then gushed forth therefrom twelve springs. Each (group of) people knew its own place for water. \"Eat and drink of that which Allah has provided and do not act corruptly, making mischief on the earth.\"",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And recall what time Musa prayed for drink for his people. We said: smite With thy staff the stone. Then there gushed forth thereout twelve springs; every people already knew their drinking-place; eat and drink of the provision of Allah, and commit not evil on the earth as corrupters.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "(Remember) when Moses prayed for water for his nation, We said to him: 'Strike the Rock with your staff. ' Thereupon twelve springs gushed from it, and each tribe knew their drinking place. 'Eat and drink of that which Allah has provided and do not act evilly in the land, corrupting. '",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And (remember) when Moses sought water for his people, We said, `strike the rock with thy staff; and there gushed forth from it twelve springs; each tribe learnt its drinking place: `eat and drink of God's provision, and do not go about in the land causing disorder.'",
  "en_tr_sher": "And remember the time when Moses prayed for water for his people and We said, 'Strike the rock with thy rod;' And there gushed forth from it twelve springs, so that each tribe knew their drinking place. And they were told, 'Eat and drink of what God has provided, and commit not iniquity in the earth, creating disorder.'",
  "en_tr_asad": "And [remember] when Moses prayed for water for his people and We replied, \"Strike the rock with thy staff!\" &ndash; whereupon twelve springs gushed forth from it, so that all the people knew whence to drink. [And Moses said:] \"Eat and drink the sustenance provided by God, and do not act wickedly on earth by spreading corruption.\"",
  "en_tr_arberry": "And when Moses sought water for his people, so We said, Strike with thy staff the rock; and there gushed forth from it twelve fountains; all the people knew now their drinking-place. Eat and drink of Gods providing, and mischief not in the earth, doing corruption.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Remember that when Moses prayed for water for his people, We answered, \"Strike the rock with your staff\": whereupon twelve springs gushed forth from it;{{76}} the people of every clan came to know their drinking place. (Then they were enjoined:) \"Eat and drink of what Allah has provided and do not spread disorder on the earth.\"",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And remember Moses prayed for water for his people; We said: \"Strike the rock with thy staff.\" Then gushed forth therefrom twelve springs. Each group{{73}} knew its own place for water. So eat and drink of the sustenance provided by Allah, and do no evil nor mischief on the (face of the) earth.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And [remember] when Moses prayed for water for his people and We replied, \"Strike the rock with thy staff!\" - whereupon twelve springs gushed forth from it, so that all the people knew whence to drink.{{45}} [And Moses said:] \"Eat and drink the sustenance provided by God, and do not act wickedly on earth by spreading corruption.\"",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "73",
      "note": "Here we have a reference to the tribal organization of the Jews, which played a great part in their forty-years' march through the Arabian deserts (Num. 1 and 2) and their subsequent settlement in the land of Canaan (Josh. 13 and 14). The twelve tribes were derived from the sons of Jacob, whose name was changed to Israel (soldier of Allah) after he had wrestled, says Jewish tradition, with Allah (Genesis 32:28). Israel had twelve sons (Gen. 35:22-26), including Levi and Joseph. The descendants of these twelve sons were the \"Children of Israel.\" Levi's family got the priesthood and the care of the Tabernacle; they were exempted from military duties, for which the census was taken (Num. 1:47-53), and therefore from the distribution of Land in Canaan (Josh. 14:3); they were distributed among all the Tribes, and were really a privileged caste and not numbered among the Tribes; Moses and Aaron belonged to the house of Levi. On the other hand Joseph, on account of the high position to which he rose in Egypt as the Pharaoh's minister, was the progenitor of two tribes, one in the name of each of his two sons Ephraim and Manasseh. Thus there were twelve Tribes in all, as Levi was cut out and Joseph represented two tribes. Their having fixed stations and watering places in camp and fixed territorial areas later in the Promised Land prevented confusion and mutual jealousies and is pointed to as an evidence of the Providence of Allah acting through His Prophet Moses. Cf. also 7:160. The gushing of twelve springs from a rock evidently refers to a local tradition well known to Jews and Arabs in Al Mustafa's time. Near Horeb close to Mount Sinai, where the Law was given to Moses, is a huge mass of red granite, twelve feet high and about fifty feet in circumference, where European travellers (e.g., Breydenbach in the 15th Century after Christ saw abundant springs of water twelve in number (see Sale's notes on this passage). It existed in Al Mustafa's time and may still exist to the present day, for anything we know to the contrary. The Jewish tradition would be based on Exod. 17:6: \"Thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it that the people may drink.\" The story is used as a parable, as is clear from the latter part of the verse. In the desolation and among the rocks of this life people grumble. But they will not be left starving or thirsty of spiritual life. Allah's Messenger can provide abundant spiritual sustenance even from such unpromising things as the hard rocks of life. And all the nations can be grouped round it, each different, yet each in perfect order and discipline. We are to use with gratitude all spiritual food and drink provided by Allah, and He sometimes provides from unexpected places. We must restrain ourselves from mischief, pride, and every kind of evil, for our higher life is based on our probation on this very earth."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "45",
      "note": "I.e., according to their tribal divisions."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Here we have a reference to the tribal organization of the Jews, which played a great part in their forty-years' march through the Arabian deserts (Num. 1 and 2) and their subsequent settlement in the land of Canaan (Josh. 13 and 14). The twelve tribes were derived from the sons of Jacob, whose name was changed to Israel (soldier of Allah) after he had wrestled, says Jewish tradition, with Allah (Genesis 32:28). Israel had twelve sons (Gen. 35:22-26), including Levi and Joseph. The descendants of these twelve sons were the \"Children of Israel.\" Levi's family got the priesthood and the care of the Tabernacle; they were exempted from military duties, for which the census was taken (Num. 1:47-53), and therefore from the distribution of Land in Canaan (Josh. 14:3); they were distributed among all the Tribes, and were really a privileged caste and not numbered among the Tribes; Moses and Aaron belonged to the house of Levi. On the other hand Joseph, on account of the high position to which he rose in Egypt as the Pharaoh's minister, was the progenitor of two tribes, one in the name of each of his two sons Ephraim and Manasseh. Thus there were twelve Tribes in all, as Levi was cut out and Joseph represented two tribes. Their having fixed stations and watering places in camp and fixed territorial areas later in the Promised Land prevented confusion and mutual jealousies and is pointed to as an evidence of the Providence of Allah acting through His Prophet Moses. Cf. also 7:160. The gushing of twelve springs from a rock evidently refers to a local tradition well known to Jews and Arabs in Al Mustafa's time. Near Horeb close to Mount Sinai, where the Law was given to Moses, is a huge mass of red granite, twelve feet high and about fifty feet in circumference, where European travellers (e.g., Breydenbach in the 15th Century after Christ saw abundant springs of water twelve in number (see Sale's notes on this passage). It existed in Al Mustafa's time and may still exist to the present day, for anything we know to the contrary. The Jewish tradition would be based on Exod. 17:6: \"Thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it that the people may drink.\" The story is used as a parable, as is clear from the latter part of the verse. In the desolation and among the rocks of this life people grumble. But they will not be left starving or thirsty of spiritual life. Allah's Messenger can provide abundant spiritual sustenance even from such unpromising things as the hard rocks of life. And all the nations can be grouped round it, each different, yet each in perfect order and discipline. We are to use with gratitude all spiritual food and drink provided by Allah, and He sometimes provides from unexpected places. We must restrain ourselves from mischief, pride, and every kind of evil, for our higher life is based on our probation on this very earth.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "I.e., according to their tribal divisions.",
  "keywords": null
}