{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 2,
  "verse_no": 85,
  "ar_text": "ثُمَّ أَنْتُمْ هَٰؤُلَاءِ تَقْتُلُونَ أَنْفُسَكُمْ وَتُخْرِجُونَ فَرِيقًا مِنْكُمْ مِنْ دِيَارِهِمْ تَظَاهَرُونَ عَلَيْهِمْ بِالْإِثْمِ وَالْعُدْوَانِ وَإِنْ يَأْتُوكُمْ أُسَارَىٰ تُفَادُوهُمْ وَهُوَ مُحَرَّمٌ عَلَيْكُمْ إِخْرَاجُهُمْ أَفَتُؤْمِنُونَ بِبَعْضِ الْكِتَابِ وَتَكْفُرُونَ بِبَعْضٍ فَمَا جَزَاءُ مَنْ يَفْعَلُ ذَٰلِكَ مِنْكُمْ إِلَّا خِزْيٌ فِي الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا وَيَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ يُرَدُّونَ إِلَىٰ أَشَدِّ الْعَذَابِ وَمَا اللَّهُ بِغَافِلٍ عَمَّا تَعْمَلُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ثم أنتم هؤلاء تقتلون أنفسكم وتخرجون فريقا منكم من ديارهم تظاهرون عليهم بالإثم والعدوان وإن يأتوكم أسارى تفادوهم وهو محرم عليكم إخراجهم أفتؤمنون ببعض الكتاب وتكفرون ببعض فما جزاء من يفعل ذلك منكم إلا خزي في الحياة الدنيا ويوم القيامة يردون إلى أشد العذاب وما الله بغافل عما تعملون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "After this it is ye, the same people, who slay among yourselves, and banish a party of you from their homes; assist (Their enemies) against them, in guilt and rancour; and if they come to you as captives, ye ransom them, though it was not lawful for you to banish them. Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in, and do ye reject the rest? but what is the reward for those among you who behave like this but disgrace in this life?- and on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty. For Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Yet ye it is who slay each other and drive out a party of your people from their homes, supporting one another against them by sin and transgression? - and if they came to you as captives ye would ransom them, whereas their expulsion was itself unlawful for you - Believe ye in part of the Scripture and disbelieve ye in part thereof? And what is the reward of those who do so save ignominy in the life of the world, and on the Day of Resurrection they will be consigned to the most grievous doom. For Allah is not unaware of what ye do.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Yet you it is who slay your people and turn a party from among you out of their homes, backing each other up against them unlawfully and exceeding the limits; and if they should come to you, as captives you would ransom them-- while their very turning out was unlawful for you. Do you then believe in a part of the Book and disbelieve in the other? What then is the re ward of such among you as do this but disgrace in the life of this world, and on the day of resurrection they shall be sent back to the most grievous chastisement, and Allah is not at all heedless of what you do.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "After this, it is you who kill one another and drive out a party of you from their homes, assist (their enemies) against them, in sin and transgression. And if they come to you as captives, you ransom them, although their expulsion was forbidden to you. Then do you believe in a part of the Scripture and reject the rest? Then what is the recompense of those who do so among you, except disgrace in the life of this world, and on the Day of Resurrection they shall be consigned to the most grievous torment. And Allah is not unaware of what you do.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Thereafter it is ye the very ones who slay each other and drive a party of you from their homes, and back up against them with guilt and iniquity; and if they come unto you as captives, ye ransom them, whereas forbidden unto you was their driving away itself. Believe ye then in part of the Book and disbelieve in part? What, then, is to be the meed of those of you who do that, save humiliation in the life of the world? And on the Day of Judgement they shall be brought back to the severest torment, and Allah is not neglectful of that which ye work.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Yet there you are, slaying your ownselves, and turning a number of them out of their dwellings, and helping each other against them with sin and aggression. Although, should they come to you as captives, you would ransom them. Surely, their expulsion was unlawful. Do you then believe in a part of the Book and disbelieve another! What shall be the recompense of those of you who do that, but degradation in the worldly life, and on the Day of Resurrection to be returned to the most terrible punishment. Allah is not inattentive of what you do.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Yet you are those who kill your people and expel a party of yours from their habitations, backing each other against them in sin and enmity; and if they come to you as captives, you ransom them, whereas their very expulsion was forbidden to you. Do you believe in part of the Book and disbelieve in part? The recompense of those who do that is not but disgrace in the present life; and, on the Day of Resurrection, they shall be turned to the most severe punishment; and God is not heedless of the things you do.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Yet you are those who slay one another and turn out a section of your people from their homes, backing up their enemies against them in sin and transgression. And if they come to you as captives, you ransom them, while their expulsion itself was unlawful for you. Do you then believe in a part of the Book and disbelieve in another part? What is then the reward of such among you as do so, except disgrace in the present life; and on the Day of Judgment they shall be driven to a most severe chastisement; and surely God is not unmindful of what you do.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And yet, it is you who slay one another and drive some of your own people from their homelands, aiding one another against them in sin and hatred; but if they come to you as captives, you ransom them &ndash; although the very [act of] driving them away has been made unlawful to you! \nDo you, then, believe in some parts of the divine writ and deny the truth of other parts? What, then, could be the reward of those among you who do such things but ignominy in the life of this world and, on the Day of Resurrection, commitment to most grievous suffering? For God is not unmindful of what you do.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Then there you are killing one another, and expelling a party of you from their habitations, conspiring against them in sin and enmity; and if they come to you as captives, you ransom them; yet their expulsion was forbidden you. What, do you believe in part of the Book, and disbelieve in part? What shall be the recompense of those of you who do that, but degradation in the present life, and on the Day of Resurrection to be returned unto the most terrible of chastisement? And God is not heedless of the things you do.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "But in spite of this, you are killing your brethren and driving them out from their homes and making unjust and aggressive alliances against one another. And when they come to you as captives, you trade on their ransoms whereas their expulsion itself was unlawful for you. Do you then believe in one part of the Scriptures and disbelieve in the other?{{92}} What other punishment do such people from among you deserve except an ignominious life in this world and the most grievous doom on the Day of Resurrection? Allah is not unaware of what you are doing.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "After this it is ye, the same people, who slay among yourselves, and banish a party of you from their homes; assist (Their enemies) against them, in guilt and rancour; and if they come to you as captives, ye ransom{{89}} them, though it was not lawful for you to banish them. Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in, and do ye reject the rest? but what is the reward for those among you who behave like this but disgrace in this life?- and on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty. For Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And yet, it is you who slay one another and drive some of your own people from their homelands, aiding one another against them in sin and hatred; but if they come to you as captives, you ransom them - although the very [act of] driving them away has been made unlawful to you!{{69}} Do you, then, believe in some parts of the divine writ and deny the truth of other parts? What, then, could be the reward of those among you who do such things but ignominy in the life of this world and, on the Day of Resurrection, commitment to most grievous suffering? For God is not unmindful of what you do.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "89",
      "note": "I understand \"ransom them\" here to mean \"take ransom for them,\" though most of the Commentators take it to mean \"give ransom for them,\" Al Mustafa had made a Pact which, if it had been faithfully observed by all parties, would have brought a reign of law and order for Mad in ah. But some of the treacherous Jews never intended to observe its terms. They fought and slew each other and nor only banished those who were obnoxious to them but intrigued with their enemies. If by any chance they came back into their hands as captives, they demanded ransom for them to return to their homes although they had no right to banish them at all. If we understand by \"ransom them\" pay \"ransom for them to release them from the hands of their enemies,\" it would mean that they did this pious act for show, although they were themselves the authors of their unlawful banishment. I think the former makes better sense."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "69",
      "note": "This is a reference to the conditions prevailing at Medina at the time of the Prophet's hijrah. The two Arab tribes of Medina - Al-Aws and Khazraj - were, in pre-Islamic times permanently at war with one another; and out of the three Jewish tribes living there - the Banu Qaynuqa', Banu 'n-Nadir and Banu Qurayzah - the first-named two were allied with Khazraj, while the third was allied with Al-Aws. Thus, in the course of their warfare, Jew would kill Jew in alliance with pagans (\"aiding one another in sin and hatred\"): a twofold crime from the viewpoint of Mosaic Law. Nevertheless, they would subsequently ransom their mutual captives in obedience to that very same Law - and it is this glaring inconsistency to which the Qur'an alludes in the next sentence."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "I understand \"ransom them\" here to mean \"take ransom for them,\" though most of the Commentators take it to mean \"give ransom for them,\" Al Mustafa had made a Pact which, if it had been faithfully observed by all parties, would have brought a reign of law and order for Mad in ah. But some of the treacherous Jews never intended to observe its terms. They fought and slew each other and nor only banished those who were obnoxious to them but intrigued with their enemies. If by any chance they came back into their hands as captives, they demanded ransom for them to return to their homes although they had no right to banish them at all. If we understand by \"ransom them\" pay \"ransom for them to release them from the hands of their enemies,\" it would mean that they did this pious act for show, although they were themselves the authors of their unlawful banishment. I think the former makes better sense.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "This is a reference to the conditions prevailing at Medina at the time of the Prophet's hijrah. The two Arab tribes of Medina - Al-Aws and Khazraj - were, in pre-Islamic times permanently at war with one another; and out of the three Jewish tribes living there - the Banu Qaynuqa', Banu 'n-Nadir and Banu Qurayzah - the first-named two were allied with Khazraj, while the third was allied with Al-Aws. Thus, in the course of their warfare, Jew would kill Jew in alliance with pagans (\"aiding one another in sin and hatred\"): a twofold crime from the viewpoint of Mosaic Law. Nevertheless, they would subsequently ransom their mutual captives in obedience to that very same Law - and it is this glaring inconsistency to which the Qur'an alludes in the next sentence.",
  "keywords": null
}