{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 24,
  "verse_no": 43,
  "ar_text": "أَلَمْ تَرَ أَنَّ اللَّهَ يُزْجِي سَحَابًا ثُمَّ يُؤَلِّفُ بَيْنَهُ ثُمَّ يَجْعَلُهُ رُكَامًا فَتَرَى الْوَدْقَ يَخْرُجُ مِنْ خِلَالِهِ وَيُنَزِّلُ مِنَ السَّمَاءِ مِنْ جِبَالٍ فِيهَا مِنْ بَرَدٍ فَيُصِيبُ بِهِ مَنْ يَشَاءُ وَيَصْرِفُهُ عَنْ مَنْ يَشَاءُ يَكَادُ سَنَا بَرْقِهِ يَذْهَبُ بِالْأَبْصَارِ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ألم تر أن الله يزجي سحابا ثم يؤلف بينه ثم يجعله ركاما فترى الودق يخرج من خلاله وينزل من السماء من جبال فيها من برد فيصيب به من يشاء ويصرفه عن من يشاء يكاد سنا برقه يذهب بالأبصار",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Seest thou not that Allah makes the clouds move gently, then joins them together, then makes them into a heap? - then wilt thou see rain issue forth from their midst. And He sends down from the sky mountain masses (of clouds) wherein is hail: He strikes therewith whom He pleases and He turns it away from whom He pleases, the vivid flash of His lightning well-nigh blinds the sight.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Hast thou not seen how Allah wafteth the clouds, then gathereth them, then maketh them layers, and thou seest the rain come forth from between them; He sendeth down from the heaven mountains wherein is hail, and smiteth therewith whom He will, and averteth it from whom He will. The flashing of His lightning all but snatcheth away the sight.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Do you not see that Allah drives along the clouds, then gathers them together, then piles them up, so that you see the rain coming forth from their midst? And He sends down of the clouds that are (like) mountains wherein is hail, afflicting therewith whom He pleases and turning it away from whom He pleases; the flash of His lightning almost takes away the sight.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "See you not that Allah drives the clouds gently, then joins them together, then makes them into a heap of layers, and you see the rain comes forth from between them. And He sends down from the sky hail (like) mountains, (or there are in the heaven mountains of hail from where He sends down hail), and strike therewith whom He will, and averts it from whom He wills. The vivid flash of its (clouds) lightning nearly blinds the sight.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Beholdest thou not that Allah driveth a cloud along, then combineth it, then maketh it a heap, and then thou beholdest the fine rain come forth from the interstices thereof? And He sendeth down from the heaven mountains wherein is hail, then afflicteth therewith whomsoever He will, and averteth it from whomsoever He will: wellnigh the flash of His lightening taketh away the sights.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Have you not seen how Allah drives the clouds, then gathers them and converts them into a mass, then you see rain coming from the midst of them? And He sends down out of heaven mountains in which there is hail, pelting with it whom He will, and turning it away from whom He will. The flash of its lightning almost snatches away the sight.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Hast thou not seen that God drives the cloud, then composes it, then makes it a mass, then thou seest the rain coming forth from inside it. And He sends down from heaven, from hillside, hail, then smites with it whom he will, and turns it aside from whom He will; the flash of its lightning almost takes away the eyes.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Seest thou not that God drives the clouds slowly, then joins them together, then piles them up so that thou seest rain issue forth from the midst thereof? And He sends down from the sky clouds like mountains wherein is hail, and He smites therewith whom He pleases, and turns it away from whom He pleases. The flash of its lightning may well-nigh take away the sight.",
  "en_tr_asad": "Art thou not aware that it is God who causes the clouds to move onward, then joins them together, then piles them up in masses, until thou canst see rain come forth from their midst?\nAnd He it is who sends down from the skies, by degrees, mountainous masses [of clouds] charged with hail, striking therewith whomever He wills and averting it from whomever He wills, [the while] the flash of His lightning well-nigh deprives [men of their] sight!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "hast thou not seen how God drives the clouds, then composes them, then converts them into a mass, then thou seest the rain issuing out of the midst of them? And He sends down out of heaven mountains, wherein is hail, so that He smites whom He will with it, and turns it aside from whom He will; wellnigh the gleam of His lightning snatches away the sight.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Do you not observe that Allah makes the cloud move gently then joins its pieces together: then gathers it into a mass of thick cloud: then you see that rain-drops fall down from its midst: and He sends down hail out of the high up mountains in the heaven:{{75}} then He smites with it whom He wills and turns it away from whom He pleases: then a flash of lightning from it dazzles the eyes.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Seest thou not that Allah makes the clouds move gently, then joins them together, then makes them into a heap? - then wilt thou see rain issue forth{{3019}} from their midst. And He sends down from the sky mountain masses (of clouds) wherein is hail: He strikes therewith whom He pleases and He turns it away from whom He pleases, the vivid flash of His lightning well-nigh blinds the sight.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "Art thou not aware that it is God who causes the clouds to move onward, then joins them together, then piles them up in masses, until thou canst see rain come forth from their midst? And He it is who sends down from the skies, by degrees, mountainous masses [of clouds] charged with hail, striking therewith whomever He wills and averting it from whomever He wills, [the while] the flash of His lightning well-nigh deprives [men of their] sight!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "3019",
      "note": "Artists, or lovers of nature, or observers of clouds will appreciate this description of cloud effects? thin clouds floating about in fantastic shapes, joining together and taking body and substance, then emerging as heavy clouds heaped up, which condense and pour forth their rain. Then the heavy dark clouds in the upper regions, that bring hail?how distinct and yet how similar! They are truly like mountain masses! And when the hailstones fall, how local their area! It hits some localities and leaves free others almost interlaced! And the lightning?how blinding flashes come from thunderous clouds! In this Book of Nature can we not see the hand of the powerful and beneficent Allah?"
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Artists, or lovers of nature, or observers of clouds will appreciate this description of cloud effects? thin clouds floating about in fantastic shapes, joining together and taking body and substance, then emerging as heavy clouds heaped up, which condense and pour forth their rain. Then the heavy dark clouds in the upper regions, that bring hail?how distinct and yet how similar! They are truly like mountain masses! And when the hailstones fall, how local their area! It hits some localities and leaves free others almost interlaced! And the lightning?how blinding flashes come from thunderous clouds! In this Book of Nature can we not see the hand of the powerful and beneficent Allah?",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}