{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 3,
  "verse_no": 161,
  "ar_text": "وَمَا كَانَ لِنَبِيٍّ أَنْ يَغُلَّ وَمَنْ يَغْلُلْ يَأْتِ بِمَا غَلَّ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ ثُمَّ تُوَفَّىٰ كُلُّ نَفْسٍ مَا كَسَبَتْ وَهُمْ لَا يُظْلَمُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وما كان لنبي أن يغل ومن يغلل يأت بما غل يوم القيامة ثم توفى كل نفس ما كسبت وهم لا يظلمون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "No prophet could (ever) be false to his trust. If any person is so false, He shall, on the Day of Judgment, restore what he misappropriated; then shall every soul receive its due,- whatever it earned,- and none shall be dealt with unjustly.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "It is not for any prophet to embezzle. Whoso embezzleth will bring what he embezzled with him on the Day of Resurrection. Then every soul will be paid in full what it hath earned; and they will not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And it is not attributable to a prophet that he should act unfaithfully; and he who acts unfaithfully shall bring that in respect of which he has acted unfaithfully on the day of resurrection; then shall every soul be paid back fully what it has earned, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "It is not for any Prophet to take illegally a part of booty (Ghulul), and whosoever deceives his companions as regards the booty, he shall bring forth on the Day of Resurrection that which he took (illegally). Then every person shall be paid in full what he has earned, - and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "It is not the part of a prophet to hide anything away: whosoever hideth anything away, he shall bring forth on the Day of Resurrection that which he had hidden away; then shall each one be repaid in full that which he hath earned, and they shall not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "It is not for a Prophet to defraud, whosoever defrauds shall bring that fraud on the Day of Resurrection. Then, every soul shall be paid in full what it has earned, and they shall not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And it is not for a Prophet to defraud. And whoso defrauds shall bring the fraud he made on the Day of Resurrection, then every soul shall be paid in full what it earned, and they shall not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And it is not possible for a Prophet to act dishonestly, and whosoever acts dishonestly shall bring with him that, concerning which he has been dishonest, on the Day of Resurrection. Then every soul shall be fully paid what it has earned; and they shall not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_asad": "AND IT IS not conceivable that a prophet should deceive &ndash; since he who deceives shall be faced with his deceit on the Day of Resurrection, when every human being shall be repaid in full for whatever he has done, and none shall be wronged.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "It is not for a Prophet to be fraudulent; whoso defrauds shall bring the fruits of his fraud on the Day of Resurrection; then every soul shall be paid in full what it has earned, and they shall not be wronged.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "It is not for a Prophet to defraud;{{114}} and whoever defrauds shall bring with him the fruits of his fraud on the Day of Resurrection, when every human being shall be paid in full what he has earned, and shall not be wronged.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "No prophet could (ever){{472}} be false to his trust. If any person is so false, He shall, on the Day of Judgment, restore what he misappropriated; then shall every soul receive its due,- whatever it earned,- and none shall be dealt with unjustly.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "AND IT IS not conceivable that a prophet should deceive{{123}} - since he who deceives shall be faced with his deceit on the Day of Resurrection, when every human being shall be repaid in full for whatever he has done, and none shall be wronged.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "472",
      "note": "Besides the gentleness of his nature, Al Mustafa was known from his earliest life for his trustworthiness. Hence his title of al Arrnn. Unscrupulous people often read their own low motives into other men, and their accusation, which is meant to injure, fastens on the various virtues for which the man they attack is well known. Some of the hypocrites after Uhud raised some doubts about the division of the spoils, thinking to sow the seeds of poison in the hearts of the men who had deserted their posts in their craving for booty. Those low suspicions were never believed in by any sensible people, and they have no interest for us now. But the general principles here declared are of eternal value, (1) Prophets of Allah do not act from unworthy motives. (2) Those who act from such motives are spiritually the lowest of creatures, and they will make no profit. (3) A Prophet of Allah is not to be judged by the same standard as a greedy creature. (4) In Allah's eyes there are various grades of men, and we must try to understand and appreciate such grades. If we trust our Leader, we shall not question his honesty without cause. If he is dishonest, he is not fit to be a leader. (R)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "123",
      "note": "I.e., by attributing his own opinions to God, and then appealing to the believers to place their trust in Him alone. However contrary to reason such deceit may be, it is a common view among non-believers that the Prophet himself \"composed\" the Qur'an and thereupon falsely attributed it to divine revelation."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Besides the gentleness of his nature, Al Mustafa was known from his earliest life for his trustworthiness. Hence his title of al Arrnn. Unscrupulous people often read their own low motives into other men, and their accusation, which is meant to injure, fastens on the various virtues for which the man they attack is well known. Some of the hypocrites after Uhud raised some doubts about the division of the spoils, thinking to sow the seeds of poison in the hearts of the men who had deserted their posts in their craving for booty. Those low suspicions were never believed in by any sensible people, and they have no interest for us now. But the general principles here declared are of eternal value, (1) Prophets of Allah do not act from unworthy motives. (2) Those who act from such motives are spiritually the lowest of creatures, and they will make no profit. (3) A Prophet of Allah is not to be judged by the same standard as a greedy creature. (4) In Allah's eyes there are various grades of men, and we must try to understand and appreciate such grades. If we trust our Leader, we shall not question his honesty without cause. If he is dishonest, he is not fit to be a leader. (R).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "I.e., by attributing his own opinions to God, and then appealing to the believers to place their trust in Him alone. However contrary to reason such deceit may be, it is a common view among non-believers that the Prophet himself \"composed\" the Qur'an and thereupon falsely attributed it to divine revelation.",
  "keywords": null
}