{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 3,
  "verse_no": 180,
  "ar_text": "وَلَا يَحْسَبَنَّ الَّذِينَ يَبْخَلُونَ بِمَا آتَاهُمُ اللَّهُ مِنْ فَضْلِهِ هُوَ خَيْرًا لَهُمْ بَلْ هُوَ شَرٌّ لَهُمْ سَيُطَوَّقُونَ مَا بَخِلُوا بِهِ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ وَلِلَّهِ مِيرَاثُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ وَاللَّهُ بِمَا تَعْمَلُونَ خَبِيرٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولا يحسبن الذين يبخلون بما آتاهم الله من فضله هو خيرا لهم بل هو شر لهم سيطوقون ما بخلوا به يوم القيامة ولله ميراث السماوات والأرض والله بما تعملون خبير",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And let not those who covetously withhold of the gifts which Allah Hath given them of His Grace, think that it is good for them: Nay, it will be the worse for them: soon shall the things which they covetously withheld be tied to their necks Like a twisted collar, on the Day of Judgment. To Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is well-acquainted with all that ye do.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And let not those who hoard up that which Allah hath bestowed upon them of His bounty think that it is better for them. Nay, it is worse for them. That which they hoard will be their collar on the Day of Resurrection. Allah's is the heritage of the heavens and the earth, and Allah is Informed of what ye do.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And let not those deem, who are niggardly in giving away that which Allah has granted them out of His grace, that it is good for them; nay, it is worse for them; they shall have that whereof they were niggardly made to cleave to their necks on the resurrection day; and Allah's is the heritage of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is aware of what you do.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And let not those who covetously withhold of that which Allah has bestowed on them of His Bounty (Wealth) think that it is good for them (and so they do not pay the obligatory Zakat). Nay, it will be worse for them; the things which they covetously withheld shall be tied to their necks like a collar on the Day of Resurrection. And to Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is Well-Acquainted with all that you do.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And let not those who stint with that which Allah hath vouchsafed them in His grace deem that this is good for them: nay! it is bad for them; anon shall that wherewith they stint be hung round their necks on the Day of Judgement. And Allah's is the heritage of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is of that which ye work Aware.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "And do not let those who are greedy with what Allah has given them of His Bounty think it is better for them, but rather, it is worse for them. They will be coiled in that which they were greedy on the Day of Resurrection. And to Allah belongs the inheritance of the heavens and the earth. And Allah is Aware of what you do.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And let not those who are niggardly with the bounty that God has given them, think that it is good for them; no, it is bad for them; the things they are niggardly with shall be made a collar of their necks on the Day of Resurrection. And to God belongs the heritage of the heavens and earth; and God is aware of the things you do.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And let not those who are niggardly in spending what God has given them of His bounty, think that it is good for them; nay, it is bad for them. That with respect to which they were niggardly shall be put as a collar round their necks on the Day of Resurrection. And to God belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth, and God is fully Aware of what you do.",
  "en_tr_asad": "AND THEY should not think &ndash; they who niggardly cling to all that God has granted them out of His bounty &ndash; that this is good for them: nay, it is bad for them. That to which they [so] niggardly cling will, on the Day of Resurrection, be hung about their necks: for unto God [alone] belongs the heritage of the heavens and of the earth; and God is aware of all that you do.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "But as for those who are niggardly with the bounty God has given them, let them not suppose it is better for them; nay, it is worse for them; that they were niggardly with they shall have hung about their necks on the Resurrection Day; and to God belongs the inheritance of the heavens and earth; and God is aware of the things you do.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Those who are niggardly about what Allah has granted them out of His bounty think that niggardliness is good for them; it is bad for them. What they were niggardly about will turn into a halter round their necks on the Day of Resurrection. To Allah belongs the inheritance of the heavens and the earth;{{127}} and Allah is well aware of what you do.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And let not those who covetously withhold of the gifts which Allah Hath given them of His Grace{{483}}, think that it is good for them: Nay, it will be the worse for them: soon shall the things which they covetously withheld be tied to their necks Like a twisted collar,{{484}} on the Day of Judgment. To Allah belongs the heritage{{485}} of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is well-acquainted with all that ye do.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "AND THEY should not think - they who niggardly cling to all that God has granted them out of His bounty - that this is good for them: nay, it is bad for them.{{138}} That to which they [so] niggardly cling will, on the Day of Resurrection, be hung about their necks: for unto God [alone] belongs the heritage of the heavens and of the earth; and God is aware of all that you do.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "483",
      "note": "The gifts are of all kinds: material gifts, such as wealth, property, strength of limbs, etc., or intangible gifts, such as influence, birth in a given set, intellect, skill, insight, etc., or spiritual gifts of the highest kind. The spending of all these things (apart from what is necessary for ourselves) for those who need them, is charity, and purifies our own character. The withholding of them (apart from our needs) is similarly greed and selfishness, and is strongly condemned."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "484",
      "note": "By an apt metaphor the miser is told that his wealth or the other gifts which he hoarded will cling round his neck and do him no good. He will wish he could get rid of them, but he will not be able to do so. According to the Biblical phrase in another connection they will hang like a millstone round his neck (Matt. 18:6). The metaphor here is fuller. He hugged his wealth or his gifts about him. They will become like a heavy collar, the badge of slavery, round his neck. They will be tied tight and twisted, and they will give him pain and anguish instead of pleasure, Cf. also 17:13."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "485",
      "note": "Another metaphor is now introduced. Material wealth or property is only called ours during our short life here. So all gifts are ours in trust only; they ultimately revert to Allah, to Whom belongs all that is in the heavens or on earth (Cf. 6:165). (R)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "138",
      "note": "This is an allusion to the way of life of the unbelievers mentioned in verse 179 above: a way of life characterized by extreme attachment to the material things of this world - a materialism based on a lack of belief in anything that transcends the practical problems of life."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The gifts are of all kinds: material gifts, such as wealth, property, strength of limbs, etc., or intangible gifts, such as influence, birth in a given set, intellect, skill, insight, etc., or spiritual gifts of the highest kind. The spending of all these things (apart from what is necessary for ourselves) for those who need them, is charity, and purifies our own character. The withholding of them (apart from our needs) is similarly greed and selfishness, and is strongly condemned. By an apt metaphor the miser is told that his wealth or the other gifts which he hoarded will cling round his neck and do him no good. He will wish he could get rid of them, but he will not be able to do so. According to the Biblical phrase in another connection they will hang like a millstone round his neck (Matt. 18:6). The metaphor here is fuller. He hugged his wealth or his gifts about him. They will become like a heavy collar, the badge of slavery, round his neck. They will be tied tight and twisted, and they will give him pain and anguish instead of pleasure, Cf. also 17:13. Another metaphor is now introduced. Material wealth or property is only called ours during our short life here. So all gifts are ours in trust only; they ultimately revert to Allah, to Whom belongs all that is in the heavens or on earth (Cf. 6:165). (R).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "This is an allusion to the way of life of the unbelievers mentioned in verse 179 above: a way of life characterized by extreme attachment to the material things of this world - a materialism based on a lack of belief in anything that transcends the practical problems of life.",
  "keywords": null
}