{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 3,
  "verse_no": 199,
  "ar_text": "وَإِنَّ مِنْ أَهْلِ الْكِتَابِ لَمَنْ يُؤْمِنُ بِاللَّهِ وَمَا أُنْزِلَ إِلَيْكُمْ وَمَا أُنْزِلَ إِلَيْهِمْ خَاشِعِينَ لِلَّهِ لَا يَشْتَرُونَ بِآيَاتِ اللَّهِ ثَمَنًا قَلِيلًا أُولَٰئِكَ لَهُمْ أَجْرُهُمْ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِمْ إِنَّ اللَّهَ سَرِيعُ الْحِسَابِ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وإن من أهل الكتاب لمن يؤمن بالله وما أنزل إليكم وما أنزل إليهم خاشعين لله لا يشترون بآيات الله ثمنا قليلا أولئك لهم أجرهم عند ربهم إن الله سريع الحساب",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And there are, certainly, among the People of the Book, those who believe in Allah, in the revelation to you, and in the revelation to them, bowing in humility to Allah: They will not sell the Signs of Allah for a miserable gain! For them is a reward with their Lord, and Allah is swift in account.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And lo! of the People of the Scripture there are some who believe in Allah and that which is revealed unto you and that which was revealed unto them, humbling themselves before Allah. They purchase not a trifling gain at the price of the revelations of Allah. Verily their reward is with their Lord. Lo! Allah is swift to take account.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And most surely of the followers of the Book there are those who believe in Allah and (in) that which has been revealed to you and (in) that which has been revealed to them, being lowly before Allah; they do not take a small price for the communications of Allah; these it is that have their reward with their Lord; surely Allah is quick in reckoning.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And there are, certainly, among the people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians), those who believe in Allah and in that which has been revealed to you, and in that which has been revealed to them, humbling themselves before Allah. They do not sell the Verses of Allah for a little price, for them is a reward with their Lord. Surely, Allah is Swift in account.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And verily of the people of the Book there are some who believe in Allah and in that which hath been sent down unto you and that which hath been sent down unto them, humbling themselves before Allah, and barter not the revelations of Allah for a small price, these they shall have their hire with Allah. Verily Allah swift in reckoning.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "There are some among the People of the Book who believe in Allah, and in what has been sent down to you, and what has been sent down to them, humble to Allah and do not buy with the verses of Allah a little price. Those, their wage shall be with their Lord. Allah is Swift at reckoning.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And among the People of the Book are also some who believe in God and what has been sent down to you, and what has been sent down to them, men humble to God not taking a small price for the signs of God; those shall have their wage with their Lord; surely God is swift at the reckoning.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And surely, among the People of the Book there are some who believe in God and in what has been sent down to you and in what was sent down to them, humbling themselves before God. They barter not the Signs of God for a paltry price. It is these who shall have their reward with their Lord. Surely God is Swift in settling account.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And, behold, among the followers of earlier revelation there are indeed such as [truly] believe in God, and in that which has been bestowed from on high upon you as well as in that which has been bestowed upon them. Standing in awe of God, they do not barter away God's messages for a trifling gain. They shall have their reward with their Sustainer &ndash; for, behold, God is swift in reckoning!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "And some there are of the People of the Book who believe in God, and what has been sent down unto you, and what has been sent down unto them, men humble to God, not selling the signs of God for a small price; those -- their wage is with their Lord; God is swift at the reckoning.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "And among the People of the Book some believe in Allah and what has been revealed to you, and what has been revealed to them. They humble themselves before Allah, and do not sell Allah's revelations for a small price. For these men their reward is with their Lord. Allah is swift in His reckoning.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And there are, certainly, among the People of the Book, those who believe in Allah, in the revelation to you, and in the revelation to them, bowing in humility to Allah. They will not sell the Signs of Allah for a miserable gain! For them is a reward with their Lord, and Allah is swift in account.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And, behold, among the followers of earlier revelation there are indeed such as [truly] believe in God, and in that which has been bestowed from on high upon you as well as in that which has been bestowed upon them. Standing in awe of God, they do not barter away God's messages for a trifling gain. They shall have their reward with their Sustainer - for, behold, God is swift in reckoning!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": null,
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": null,
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}