{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 33,
  "verse_no": 28,
  "ar_text": "يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ قُلْ لِأَزْوَاجِكَ إِنْ كُنْتُنَّ تُرِدْنَ الْحَيَاةَ الدُّنْيَا وَزِينَتَهَا فَتَعَالَيْنَ أُمَتِّعْكُنَّ وَأُسَرِّحْكُنَّ سَرَاحًا جَمِيلًا",
  "ar_text_clean": "يا أيها النبي قل لأزواجك إن كنتن تردن الحياة الدنيا وزينتها فتعالين أمتعكن وأسرحكن سراحا جميلا",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "O Prophet! Say to thy Consorts: \"If it be that ye desire the life of this World, and its glitter,- then come! I will provide for your enjoyment and set you free in a handsome manner.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "O Prophet! Say unto thy wives: If ye desire the world's life and its adornment, come! I will content you and will release you with a fair release.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "O Prophet! say to your wives: If you desire this world's life and its adornment, then come, I will give you a provision and allow you to depart a goodly departing",
  "en_tr_hilali": "O Prophet (Muhammad SAW)! Say to your wives: If you desire the life of this world, and its glitter, Then come! I will make a provision for you and set you free in a handsome manner (divorce).",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Prophet! say unto thy wives: if it be that ye seek the world's life and the adornment thereof, then come I shall make a provision for you and I shall release you with a handsome release.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "O Prophet, say to your wives: 'If you seek this life and its finery, come, I will release you with a fine release.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "O Prophet, say to thy wives, `if you desire the life of this world and its adornment, then come, and I shall give you goods and let you off gracefully.",
  "en_tr_sher": "O Prophet! say to thy wives, 'If you desire the life of this world and its adornment, come then, I will provide for you and send you away in a handsome manner;",
  "en_tr_asad": "O PROPHET! Say unto thy wives: \"If you desire [but] the life of this world and its charms &ndash; well, then, I shall provide for you and release you in a becoming manner;",
  "en_tr_arberry": "O Prophet, say to thy wives: If you desire the present life and its adornment, come now, I will make you provision, and set you free with kindliness.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "O Prophet,{{41}} tell your wives: \"If you seek the world and its embellishments, then come and I will make some provision for you and release you in an honourable way.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "O Prophet! Say to thy Consorts: \"If it be that ye desire the life of this World, and its glitter,- then come!{{3706}} I will provide for your enjoyment and set you free in a handsome manner.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "O PROPHET! Say unto thy wives: \"If you desire [but] the life of this world and its charms - well, then, I shall provide for you and release you in a becoming manner;{{31}}",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "3706",
      "note": "We now come to the subject of the position of the Consorts of Purity (azwaj mutahharat), the wives of the Prophet. Their position was not like that of ordinary women or ordinary wives. They had special duties and responsibilities. The only youthful marriage of the Prophet was his first marriage-that with Khadijah, the best of women and the best of wives. He married her fifteen years before he received the call to Prophethood; the married life lasted for twenty-five years, and their mutual devotion was of the noblest, judged by spiritual as well as social standards. During her life he had no other wife, which was unusual for a man of his standing among his people. When she died, his age was 50, and but for two considerations, he would probably never have married again, as he was most abstemious in his physical life. The two considerations which governed his later marriages were: (1) compassion and clemency, as when he wanted to provide for suffering widows, who could not be provided for in any other way in that stage of society; some of them, like Sawdah, had issue by their former marriage, requiring protection; (2) help in his duties of leadership, with women, who had to be instructed and kept together in the large Muslim family, where women and men had similar social rights.'A'ishah, daughter of Abu Bakr, was clever and learned, and in Hadith she is an important authority on the life of the Prophet. Zaynab, daughter of Khuzaymah, was specially devoted to the poor: she was called the \"Mother of the Poor\". The other Zaynab, daughter of Jahsh, also worked for the poor, for whom she provided from the proceeds of her manual work, as she was skilled in leather work. But all the Consorts in their high position had to work and assist as Mothers of the Ummah. Theirs were not idle lives, like those of Odalisques, either for their own pleasure or the pleasure of their husband. They are told here that they had no place in the sacred Household if they merely wished for ease or worldly glitter. If such were the case, they could be divorced and amply provided for."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "31",
      "note": "By the time this verse was revealed (see note 65 on verse 52 of this surah) the Muslims had conquered the rich agricultural region of Khaybar, and the community had grown more prosperous. But while life was becoming easier for most of its members, this ease was not reflected in the household of the Prophet who, as before, allowed himself and his family only the absolute minimum necessary for the most simple living. In view of the changed circumstances, it was no more than natural that his wives were longing for a share in the comparative luxuries which other Muslim women could now enjoy, but an acquiescence by Muhammad to their demand would have conflicted with the principle, observed by him throughout his life, that the standard of living of God's Apostle and his family should not be higher than that of the poorest of the believers."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "We now come to the subject of the position of the Consorts of Purity (azwaj mutahharat), the wives of the Prophet. Their position was not like that of ordinary women or ordinary wives. They had special duties and responsibilities. The only youthful marriage of the Prophet was his first marriage-that with Khadijah, the best of women and the best of wives. He married her fifteen years before he received the call to Prophethood; the married life lasted for twenty-five years, and their mutual devotion was of the noblest, judged by spiritual as well as social standards. During her life he had no other wife, which was unusual for a man of his standing among his people. When she died, his age was 50, and but for two considerations, he would probably never have married again, as he was most abstemious in his physical life. The two considerations which governed his later marriages were: (1) compassion and clemency, as when he wanted to provide for suffering widows, who could not be provided for in any other way in that stage of society; some of them, like Sawdah, had issue by their former marriage, requiring protection; (2) help in his duties of leadership, with women, who had to be instructed and kept together in the large Muslim family, where women and men had similar social rights.'A'ishah, daughter of Abu Bakr, was clever and learned, and in Hadith she is an important authority on the life of the Prophet. Zaynab, daughter of Khuzaymah, was specially devoted to the poor: she was called the \"Mother of the Poor\". The other Zaynab, daughter of Jahsh, also worked for the poor, for whom she provided from the proceeds of her manual work, as she was skilled in leather work. But all the Consorts in their high position had to work and assist as Mothers of the Ummah. Theirs were not idle lives, like those of Odalisques, either for their own pleasure or the pleasure of their husband. They are told here that they had no place in the sacred Household if they merely wished for ease or worldly glitter. If such were the case, they could be divorced and amply provided for.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "By the time this verse was revealed (see note 65 on verse 52 of this surah) the Muslims had conquered the rich agricultural region of Khaybar, and the community had grown more prosperous. But while life was becoming easier for most of its members, this ease was not reflected in the household of the Prophet who, as before, allowed himself and his family only the absolute minimum necessary for the most simple living. In view of the changed circumstances, it was no more than natural that his wives were longing for a share in the comparative luxuries which other Muslim women could now enjoy, but an acquiescence by Muhammad to their demand would have conflicted with the principle, observed by him throughout his life, that the standard of living of God's Apostle and his family should not be higher than that of the poorest of the believers.",
  "keywords": null
}