{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 4,
  "verse_no": 113,
  "ar_text": "وَلَوْلَا فَضْلُ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكَ وَرَحْمَتُهُ لَهَمَّتْ طَائِفَةٌ مِنْهُمْ أَنْ يُضِلُّوكَ وَمَا يُضِلُّونَ إِلَّا أَنْفُسَهُمْ وَمَا يَضُرُّونَكَ مِنْ شَيْءٍ وَأَنْزَلَ اللَّهُ عَلَيْكَ الْكِتَابَ وَالْحِكْمَةَ وَعَلَّمَكَ مَا لَمْ تَكُنْ تَعْلَمُ وَكَانَ فَضْلُ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكَ عَظِيمًا",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولولا فضل الله عليك ورحمته لهمت طائفة منهم أن يضلوك وما يضلون إلا أنفسهم وما يضرونك من شيء وأنزل الله عليك الكتاب والحكمة وعلمك ما لم تكن تعلم وكان فضل الله عليك عظيما",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "But for the Grace of Allah to thee and his Mercy, a party of them would certainly have plotted to lead thee astray. But (in fact) they will only Lead their own souls astray, and to thee they can do no harm in the least. For Allah hath sent down to thee the Book and wisdom and taught thee what thou Knewest not (before): And great is the Grace of Allah unto thee.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "But for the grace of Allah upon thee (Muhammad), and His mercy, a party of them had resolved to mislead thee, but they will mislead only themselves and they will hurt thee not at all. Allah revealeth unto thee the Scripture and wisdom, and teacheth thee that which thou knewest not. The grace of Allah toward thee hath been infinite.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And were it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercy a party of them had certainly designed to bring you to perdition and they do not bring (aught) to perdition but their own souls, and they shall not harm you in any way, and Allah has revealed to you the Book and the wisdom, and He has taught you what you did not know, and Allah's grace on you is very great.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Had not the Grace of Allah and His Mercy been upon you (O Muhammad SAW), a party of them would certainly have made a decision to mislead you, but (in fact) they mislead none except their own selves, and no harm can they do to you in the least. Allah has sent down to you the Book (The Qur'an), and Al-Hikmah (Islamic laws, knowledge of legal and illegal things i.e. the Prophet's Sunnah - legal ways), and taught you that which you knew not. And Ever Great is the Grace of Allah unto you (O Muhammad SAW).",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Were not the grace of Allah on thee and His mercy, a party of them had surely resolved to mislead thee; whereas they mislead not but themselves, and they shall not hurt thee in aught. And Allah hath sent down unto thee the Book and wisdom, and hath taught thee that which thou knowest not; and the grace of Allah on thee is ever mighty.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "But for the Favor of Allah to you (Prophet Muhammad) and His Mercy, a party of them intended to lead you astray, but they only lead themselves astray, and they did not harm you a thing. Allah has sent down to you the Book and the Wisdom and He has taught you what you did not know. The Bounty of Allah to you is ever great.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And if it had not been God's bounty and His mercy upon thee, a group of them had purposed to lead thee astray; but they lead none astray except themselves, and they do not hurt thee in anything; and God has sent down on thee the Book and the Wisdom, and He has taught thee what thou didst not know; and surely God's bounty upon thee is great.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And but for the grace of God upon thee and His mercy, a party of them had resolved to bring about thy ruin. And they ruin none but themselves and they cannot harm thee at all. And God has sent down to thee the Book and wisdom and has taught thee what thou knewest not, and great is God's grace on thee.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And but for God's favour upon thee and His grace, some of those [who are false to themselves] would indeed endeavour to lead thee astray; yet none but themselves do they lead astray. Nor can they harm thee in any way, since God has bestowed upon thee from on high this divine writ and [given thee] wisdom, and has imparted unto thee the knowledge of what thou didst not know. And God's favour upon thee is tremendous indeed.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "But for Gods bounty to thee and His mercy a party of them purposed to lead thee astray; but they lead only themselves astray; they do not hurt thee in anything. God has sent down on thee the Book and the Wisdom, and He has taught thee that thou knewest not; Gods bounty to thee is ever great.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "(O Messenger!) But for Allah's favour and mercy upon you, a party of them had resolved to mislead you, yet they only misled them selves, and could not have harmed you in any way.{{142}} Allah revealed to you the Book and Wisdom, and He taught you what you knew not. Great indeed has been Allah's favour upon you.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "But for the Grace of Allah to thee and his Mercy, a party of them would certainly have plotted to lead thee astray. But (in fact) they will only Lead their own souls astray, and to thee they can do no harm in the least. For Allah hath sent down to thee the Book and wisdom and taught thee what thou Knewest not (before): And great is the Grace of Allah unto thee.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And but for God's favour upon thee and His grace, some of those [who are false to themselves] would indeed endeavour to lead thee astray; yet none but themselves do they lead astray. Nor can they harm thee in any way, since God has bestowed upon thee from on high this divine writ and [given thee] wisdom, and has imparted unto thee the knowledge of what thou didst not know. And God's favour upon thee is tremendous indeed.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": null,
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": null,
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}