{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 4,
  "verse_no": 131,
  "ar_text": "وَلِلَّهِ مَا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ وَلَقَدْ وَصَّيْنَا الَّذِينَ أُوتُوا الْكِتَابَ مِنْ قَبْلِكُمْ وَإِيَّاكُمْ أَنِ اتَّقُوا اللَّهَ وَإِنْ تَكْفُرُوا فَإِنَّ لِلَّهِ مَا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ وَكَانَ اللَّهُ غَنِيًّا حَمِيدًا",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولله ما في السماوات وما في الأرض ولقد وصينا الذين أوتوا الكتاب من قبلكم وإياكم أن اتقوا الله وإن تكفروا فإن لله ما في السماوات وما في الأرض وكان الله غنيا حميدا",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "To Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth. Verily we have directed the People of the Book before you, and you (o Muslims) to fear Allah. But if ye deny Him, lo! unto Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth, and Allah is free of all wants, worthy of all praise.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. And We charged those who received the Scripture before you, and (We charge) you, that ye keep your duty toward Allah. And if ye disbelieve, lo! unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth, and Allah is ever Absolute, Owner of Praise.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth is Allah's and certainly We enjoined those who were given the Book before you and (We enjoin) you too that you should be careful of (your duty to) Allah; and if you disbelieve, then surely whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth is Allah's and Allah is Self-sufficient, Praise-worthy.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And to Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth. And verily, We have recommended to the people of the Scripture before you, and to you (O Muslims) that you (all) fear Allah, and keep your duty to Him, But if you disbelieve, then unto Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth, and Allah is Ever Rich (Free of all wants), Worthy of all praise.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Allah's is whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. And assuredly We enjoined those who were vouchsafed the Book before you and yourselves: fear Allah, and if ye disbelieve then Allah's is whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth; and Allah is ever Self-Sufficient, Praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "To Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and earth. We have charged those who were given the Book before you and you to fear Allah. If you disbelieve, to Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. Allah is Rich, the Praised.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And to God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth. And We have charged those who were given the Book before you, and also you, to fear God; and if you disbelieve, then surely to God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth; and God is All-sufficient, Praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And to God belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth. And We have assuredly commanded those who were given the Book before you and commanded you also to fear God. But if you disbelieve, then remember that to God belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth, and God is Self-Sufficient, Praiseworthy.",
  "en_tr_asad": "and unto God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth. \nAND, INDEED, We have enjoined upon those who were granted revelation before your time, as well as upon yourselves, to remain conscious of God. And if you deny Him &ndash; behold, unto God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth, and God is indeed self-sufficient, ever to be praised.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "To God belongs all that is in the heavens and in the earth. We have charged those who were given the Book before you, and you, Fear God. If you disbelieve, to God belongs all that is in the heavens and in the earth; God is All-sufficient, All-laudable.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth belongs to Allah. We enjoined upon those who were given the Book before you, and also yourselves, to have fear of Allah. But if you disbelieve, then bear in mind that all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth belongs to Allah. Allah is Self-Sufficient, Most Praiseworthy.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "To Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth.{{640}} Verily we have directed the People of the Book before you, and you (o Muslims) to fear Allah. But if ye deny Him, lo! unto Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth, and Allah is free of all wants, worthy{{641}} of all praise.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "and unto God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth. AND, INDEED, We have enjoined upon those who were granted revelation before your time, as well as upon yourselves, to remain conscious of God. And if you deny Him - behold, unto God belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth, and God is indeed self-sufficient, ever to be praised.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "640",
      "note": "Notice the refrain: \"To Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth\": repeated three times, each time with a new application. In the first instance it follows the statement of Allah's universal providence and love. If two persons, in spite of every sincere desire to love and comfort each other, fail to achieve that end, and have to separate, Allah's all-reaching bounty never fails, for He is the Lord of all things. In the second instance it is connected with Allah's Self- Existence, Self-Excellence, and independence of all creatures; all His commands are for our good, and they are given to all His creatures, according to their capacities. In the third instance, it is connected with His universal power; for He could destroy any individual or nation and create a new one without any loss to Himself; but He gives a chance to all again and again, and even rewards them beyond their own ambitions."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "641",
      "note": "Allah's existence is absolute existence. It does not depend on any other person or any other thing. And it is worthy of all praise, for it is all-good and comprises every possible excellence. It is necessary to stress this point in order to show that the moral law for man is not a mere matter of transcendental commands, but really rests on the essential needs of mankind itself. If therefore such schools of thought as Behaviourisim proved their theories up to the hilt, they do not affect the position of Islam in the least. The highest ethical standards are enjoined by Islam, not as dogmatic imperatives, but because they can be shown to follow from the needs of man's nature and the results of man's experience."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Notice the refrain: \"To Allah belong all things in the heavens and on earth\": repeated three times, each time with a new application. In the first instance it follows the statement of Allah's universal providence and love. If two persons, in spite of every sincere desire to love and comfort each other, fail to achieve that end, and have to separate, Allah's all-reaching bounty never fails, for He is the Lord of all things. In the second instance it is connected with Allah's Self- Existence, Self-Excellence, and independence of all creatures; all His commands are for our good, and they are given to all His creatures, according to their capacities. In the third instance, it is connected with His universal power; for He could destroy any individual or nation and create a new one without any loss to Himself; but He gives a chance to all again and again, and even rewards them beyond their own ambitions. Allah's existence is absolute existence. It does not depend on any other person or any other thing. And it is worthy of all praise, for it is all-good and comprises every possible excellence. It is necessary to stress this point in order to show that the moral law for man is not a mere matter of transcendental commands, but really rests on the essential needs of mankind itself. If therefore such schools of thought as Behaviourisim proved their theories up to the hilt, they do not affect the position of Islam in the least. The highest ethical standards are enjoined by Islam, not as dogmatic imperatives, but because they can be shown to follow from the needs of man's nature and the results of man's experience.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}