{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 4,
  "verse_no": 32,
  "ar_text": "وَلَا تَتَمَنَّوْا مَا فَضَّلَ اللَّهُ بِهِ بَعْضَكُمْ عَلَىٰ بَعْضٍ لِلرِّجَالِ نَصِيبٌ مِمَّا اكْتَسَبُوا وَلِلنِّسَاءِ نَصِيبٌ مِمَّا اكْتَسَبْنَ وَاسْأَلُوا اللَّهَ مِنْ فَضْلِهِ إِنَّ اللَّهَ كَانَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عَلِيمًا",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولا تتمنوا ما فضل الله به بعضكم على بعض للرجال نصيب مما اكتسبوا وللنساء نصيب مما اكتسبن واسألوا الله من فضله إن الله كان بكل شيء عليما",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And in no wise covet those things in which Allah Hath bestowed His gifts More freely on some of you than on others: To men is allotted what they earn, and to women what they earn: But ask Allah of His bounty. For Allah hath full knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And covet not the thing in which Allah hath made some of you excel others. Unto men a fortune from that which they have earned, and unto women a fortune from that which they have earned. (Envy not one another) but ask Allah of His bounty. Lo! Allah is ever Knower of all things.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And do not covet that by which Allah has made some of you excel others; men shall have the benefit of what they earn and women shall have the benefit of what they earn; and ask Allah of His grace; surely Allah knows all things.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And wish not for the things in which Allah has made some of you to excel others. For men there is reward for what they have earned, (and likewise) for women there is reward for what they have earned, and ask Allah of His Bounty. Surely, Allah is Ever All-Knower of everything.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And long not for that wherewith Allah hath preferred one of you above anot her Unto men shall be the portion of that which they earn, and unto women shall be the portion of that which they earn. And ask Allah for some of His grace, verily Allah is of everything Knower.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Do not wish for the bounty which Allah has preferred one of you above another. For men is a share of what they earn, and for women is a share of what they earn. Ask Allah of His Bounty. Allah has knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And do not covet that whereby God has exalted some of you above others; for men is a share of what they earn, and for women is a share of what they earn; and ask God of His bounty; God surely knows everything.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And covet not that whereby God has made some of you excel others. Men shall have a share of that which they have earned, and women a share of that which they have earned. And ask God of His bounty. Surely, God has perfect knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_asad": "Hence, do not covet the bounties which God has bestowed more abundantly on some of you than on others. Men shall have a benefit from what they earn, and women shall have a benefit from what they earn. Ask, therefore, God [to give you] out of His bounty: behold, God has indeed full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Do not covet that whereby God in bounty has preferred one of you above another. To the men a share from what they have earned, and to the women a share from what they have earned. And ask God of His bounty; God knows everything.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Do not covet what Allah has conferred more abundantly on some of you than others. Men shall have a share according to what they have earned, and women shall have a share according to what they have earned. Do ask of Allah His bounty. Allah has full knowledge of everything.{{54}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And in no wise covet{{542}} those things in which Allah Hath bestowed His gifts More freely on some of you than on others: To men is allotted what they earn, and to women what they earn: But ask Allah of His bounty. For Allah hath full knowledge of all things.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "Hence, do not covet the bounties which God has bestowed more abundantly on some of you than on others. Men shall have a benefit from what they earn, and women shall have a benefit from what they earn. Ask, therefore, God [to give you] out of His bounty: behold, God has indeed full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "542",
      "note": "Men and women have gifts from Allah-some greater than others. They seem unequal, but we are assured that Providence has allotted them by a scheme by which people receive what they earn. If this does not appear clear in our sight, let us remember that we have no full knowledge but Allah has. We must not be jealous if other people have more than we have-in wealth or position or strength or honour or talent or happiness. Probably things are equalized in the aggregate or in the long run, or equated to needs and merits on a scale which we cannot appraise. If we want more, instead of being jealous or covetous, we should pray to Allah and place before Him our needs. Though He knows all, and has no need of our prayer, our prayer may reveal to ourselves our shortcomings and enable us to deserve more of Allah's bouncy or make ourselves fit for it."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Men and women have gifts from Allah-some greater than others. They seem unequal, but we are assured that Providence has allotted them by a scheme by which people receive what they earn. If this does not appear clear in our sight, let us remember that we have no full knowledge but Allah has. We must not be jealous if other people have more than we have-in wealth or position or strength or honour or talent or happiness. Probably things are equalized in the aggregate or in the long run, or equated to needs and merits on a scale which we cannot appraise. If we want more, instead of being jealous or covetous, we should pray to Allah and place before Him our needs. Though He knows all, and has no need of our prayer, our prayer may reveal to ourselves our shortcomings and enable us to deserve more of Allah's bouncy or make ourselves fit for it.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}