{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 4,
  "verse_no": 90,
  "ar_text": "إِلَّا الَّذِينَ يَصِلُونَ إِلَىٰ قَوْمٍ بَيْنَكُمْ وَبَيْنَهُمْ مِيثَاقٌ أَوْ جَاءُوكُمْ حَصِرَتْ صُدُورُهُمْ أَنْ يُقَاتِلُوكُمْ أَوْ يُقَاتِلُوا قَوْمَهُمْ وَلَوْ شَاءَ اللَّهُ لَسَلَّطَهُمْ عَلَيْكُمْ فَلَقَاتَلُوكُمْ فَإِنِ اعْتَزَلُوكُمْ فَلَمْ يُقَاتِلُوكُمْ وَأَلْقَوْا إِلَيْكُمُ السَّلَمَ فَمَا جَعَلَ اللَّهُ لَكُمْ عَلَيْهِمْ سَبِيلًا",
  "ar_text_clean": "إلا الذين يصلون إلى قوم بينكم وبينهم ميثاق أو جاءوكم حصرت صدورهم أن يقاتلوكم أو يقاتلوا قومهم ولو شاء الله لسلطهم عليكم فلقاتلوكم فإن اعتزلوكم فلم يقاتلوكم وألقوا إليكم السلم فما جعل الله لكم عليهم سبيلا",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Except those who join a group between whom and you there is a treaty (of peace), or those who approach you with hearts restraining them from fighting you as well as fighting their own people. If Allah had pleased, He could have given them power over you, and they would have fought you: Therefore if they withdraw from you but fight you not, and (instead) send you (Guarantees of) peace, then Allah Hath opened no way for you (to war against them).",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Except those who seek refuge with a people between whom and you there is a covenant, or (those who) come unto you because their hearts forbid them to make war on you or make war on their own folk. Had Allah willed He could have given them power over you so that assuredly they would have fought you. So, if they hold aloof from you and wage not war against you and offer you peace, Allah alloweth you no way against them.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Except those who reach a people between whom and you there is an alliance, or who come to you, their hearts shrinking from fighting you or fighting their own people; and if Allah had pleased, He would have given them power over you, so that they should have certainly fought you; therefore if they withdraw from you and do not fight you and offer you peace, then Allah has not given you a way against them.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Except those who join a group, between you and whom there is a treaty (of peace), or those who approach you with their breasts restraining from fighting you as well as fighting their own people. Had Allah willed, indeed He would have given them power over you, and they would have fought you. So if they withdraw from you, and fight not against you, and offer you peace, then Allah has opened no way for you against them.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Excepting those who join a people between whom and you there is a bond or who come to you with their breasts straitened that they should fight you or fight their own people. And had Allah so willed, He would have surely set them upon you. If then they withdraw from you, and fight not against you and offer you peace, then Allah openoth not for you against them a way.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "except those who join to a nation in which there is between you and them a treaty, or they come to you with their chests constricted from fighting you or fighting their nation. Had Allah willed, He would have given them power over you, and then they would have certainly fought you. Therefore, if they keep away from you and do not fight you, offering you peace, then Allah does not make any way for you against them.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "except those who join a people between whom and you there is a covenant, or they come to you with their breasts constricted from fighting you or fighting their people. And if God had willed, He would have given them power over you, and then they would have surely fought you. So if they withdraw from you, and do not fight you, and offer you peace, then God has not assigned to you a way against them.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Except those who are connected with a people between whom and you there is a pact, or those who come to you, while their hearts shrink from fighting you or fighting their own people. And if God had so pleased, He could have given them power against you, then they would have surely fought you. So, if they keep aloof from you and fight you not, and make you an offer of peace, then God has allowed you no way of aggression against them.",
  "en_tr_asad": "unless it be such [of them] as have ties with people to whom you yourselves are bound by a covenant, or such as come unto you because their hearts shrink from [the thought of] making war either on you or on their own folk &ndash; although, if God had willed to make them stronger than you, they would certainly have made war on you. Thus, if they let you be, and do not make war on you, and offer you peace, God does not allow you to harm them.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "those that betake themselves to a people who are joined with you by a compact, or come to you with breasts constricted from fighting with you or fighting their people. Had God willed, He would have given them authority over you, and then certainly they would have fought you. If they withdraw from you, and do not fight you, and offer you peace, then God assigns not any way to you against them.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "unless it be such of them who seek refuge with a people who are joined with you by a covenant,{{119}} or those who come to you because their hearts shrink from fighting either against you or against their own people. Had Allah so willed, He would certainly have given them power over you and they would have fought against you. If they leave you alone and do not fight against you and offer you peace,, then Allah does not permit you to harm them.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Except those who join a group between whom and you there is a treaty{{608}} (Of peace), or those who approach{{609}} you with hearts restraining them from fighting you as well as fighting their own people. If Allah had pleased, He could have given them power over you, and they would have fought you: Therefore if they withdraw from you but fight you not, and (instead) send you (Guarantees of) peace, then Allah Hath opened no way for you (to war against them).",
  "en_ctr_asad": "unless it be such [of them] as have ties with people to whom you yourselves are bound by a covenant, or such as come unto you because their hearts shrink from [the thought of] making war either on you or on their own folk - although, if God had willed to make them stronger than you, they would certainly have made war on you.{{110}} Thus, if they let you be, and do not make war on you, and offer you peace, God does not allow you to harm them.{{111}}",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "608",
      "note": "Except the exception refers to \"seize them and slay them\", the death penalty for repeated desertion. Even after such desertion, exemption is granted in two cases. One is where the deserter took asylum with a tribe with whom there was a treaty of peace and amity. Presumably such a tribe (even though outside the pale of Islam) might be trusted to keep the man from fighting against the forces of Islam-in the modern phrase, to disarm him and render him harmless. The second case for exemption is where the man from his own heart desires never to take up arms against Islam, though he does not wish to join the forces of Islam, to fight against a hostile tribe (perhaps his own) fighting against Islam. But he must make a real approach, giving guarantees of his sincerity. In the modern phase he would be \"on parole\". But this provision is much milder than that in modern military codes, which grant the privilege only to enemy prisoners, not to those who have deserted from the army granting them parole. The hypocrites were in that position, but humanity as well as policy treated them with great leniency."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "609",
      "note": "Approach or come: refers not to the physical act of coming, but to the mental attitude; the heart is mentioned for sincerity. When they sincerely promise not to fight against you, do not pursue them. Remember that if they had fought against you, your difficulties would have been increased. Their neutrality itself may be a great advantage to you. So long as you are satisfied that they are sincere and their acts support their declarations of peace with you, you should not consider yourself justifed in pursuing them and warring against them."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "110",
      "note": "Lit., \"if God had so willed, He would indeed have given them power over you, whereupon ...\", etc. - implying that only the lack of requisite power, and not true good will, causes them to refrain from making war on the believers."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "111",
      "note": "Lit., \"God has given you no way against them\": a reference to the ordinance laid down in verse 86 above."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Except the exception refers to \"seize them and slay them\", the death penalty for repeated desertion. Even after such desertion, exemption is granted in two cases. One is where the deserter took asylum with a tribe with whom there was a treaty of peace and amity. Presumably such a tribe (even though outside the pale of Islam) might be trusted to keep the man from fighting against the forces of Islam-in the modern phrase, to disarm him and render him harmless. The second case for exemption is where the man from his own heart desires never to take up arms against Islam, though he does not wish to join the forces of Islam, to fight against a hostile tribe (perhaps his own) fighting against Islam. But he must make a real approach, giving guarantees of his sincerity. In the modern phase he would be \"on parole\". But this provision is much milder than that in modern military codes, which grant the privilege only to enemy prisoners, not to those who have deserted from the army granting them parole. The hypocrites were in that position, but humanity as well as policy treated them with great leniency. Approach or come: refers not to the physical act of coming, but to the mental attitude; the heart is mentioned for sincerity. When they sincerely promise not to fight against you, do not pursue them. Remember that if they had fought against you, your difficulties would have been increased. Their neutrality itself may be a great advantage to you. So long as you are satisfied that they are sincere and their acts support their declarations of peace with you, you should not consider yourself justifed in pursuing them and warring against them.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "Lit., \"if God had so willed, He would indeed have given them power over you, whereupon ...\", etc. - implying that only the lack of requisite power, and not true good will, causes them to refrain from making war on the believers. Lit., \"God has given you no way against them\": a reference to the ordinance laid down in verse 86 above.",
  "keywords": null
}