{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 5,
  "verse_no": 103,
  "ar_text": "مَا جَعَلَ اللَّهُ مِنْ بَحِيرَةٍ وَلَا سَائِبَةٍ وَلَا وَصِيلَةٍ وَلَا حَامٍ وَلَٰكِنَّ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا يَفْتَرُونَ عَلَى اللَّهِ الْكَذِبَ وَأَكْثَرُهُمْ لَا يَعْقِلُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ما جعل الله من بحيرة ولا سائبة ولا وصيلة ولا حام ولكن الذين كفروا يفترون على الله الكذب وأكثرهم لا يعقلون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "It was not Allah who instituted (superstitions like those of) a slit-ear she-camel, or a she-camel let loose for free pasture, or idol sacrifices for twin-births in animals, or stallion-camels freed from work: It is blasphemers who invent a lie against Allah; but most of them lack wisdom.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Allah hath not appointed anything in the nature of a Bahirah or a Sa'ibah or a Wasilah or a Hami, but those who disbelieve invent a lie against Allah. Most of them have no sense.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Allah has not ordained (the making of) a bahirah or a saibah or a wasilah or a hami but those who disbelieve fabricate a lie against Allah, and most of them do not understand.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Allah has not instituted things like Bahirah (a she-camel whose milk was spared for the idols and nobody was allowed to milk it) or a Sa'ibah (a she-camel let loose for free pasture for their false gods, e.g. idols, etc., and nothing was allowed to be carried on it), or a Wasilah (a she-camel set free for idols because it has given birth to a she-camel at its first delivery and then again gives birth to a she-camel at its second delivery) or a Ham (a stallion-camel freed from work for their idols, after it had finished a number of copulations assigned for it, all these animals were liberated in honour of idols as practised by pagan Arabs in the pre-Islamic period). But those who disbelieve invent lies against Allah, and most of them have no understanding.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Allah hath not appointed aught of the bahira or the sa'iba or the wasila or the ham, those who disbelieve have fabricated a lie against Allah, and most of them reflect not.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Allah has not made cattle, a slit eared shecamel, nor a freely grazing shecamel, nor a shecamel that bore twins, nor an uncastrated camel (dedicated to idols), but those who disbelieve invent lies against Allah. Most of them do not understand.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "God has not appointed such things as Baheera, Saiba, Waseela or Ham, but the unbelievers forge falsehood against God; and most of them do not understand.",
  "en_tr_sher": "God has not ordained any 'Bahira' or 'S?'ibah' or Wasilah' or 'Hami' but those who disbelieve forge a lie against God, and most of them do not make use of their understanding.",
  "en_tr_asad": "IT IS NOT of God's ordaining that certain kinds of cattle should be marked out by superstition and set aside from the use of man; yet those who are bent on denying the truth attribute their own lying inventions to God. And most of them never use their reason:",
  "en_tr_arberry": "God has not appointed cattle dedicated to idols, such as Bahira, Saiba, Wasila, Hami; but the unbelievers forge against God falsehood, and most of them have no understanding.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Allah has neither appointed (cattle devoted to idols such as) Bahirah, Sa'ibah, Wasilah nor Ham;{{118}} but those who disbelieve forge lies against Allah and of them most have no understanding (and therefore succumb to such superstitions).",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "It was not Allah who instituted (superstitions{{809}} like those of) a slit-ear she- camel, or a she-camel let loose for free pasture, or idol sacrifices for twin-births in animals, or stallion-camels freed from work: It is blasphemers who invent a lie against Allah. but most of them lack wisdom.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "IT IS NOT of God's ordaining that certain kinds of cattle should be marked out by superstition and set aside from the use of man;{{124}} yet those who are bent on denying the truth attribute their own lying inventions to God. And most of them never use their reason:",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "809",
      "note": "A number of Arab Pagan superstitions are referred to. The Pagan mind, not understanding the hidden secrets of nature, attributed certain phenomena to divine anger and were assailed by superstitious fears which haunted their lives. If a she-camel or other female domestic animal had a large number of young, she (or one of her offspring) had her ear slit and she was dedicated to a god; such an animal was a bahirah. On return in safety from a journey, or on recovery from an illness a she-camel was similarly dedicated and let loose for free pasture; she was called a saibah. Where an animal bore twins, certain sacrifices or dedications were made to idols; an animal so dedicated was a wasilah. A stallion-camel dedicated to the gods by certain rites was a ham. The particular examples lead to the general truth; that superstition is due to ignorance, and is degrading to men and dishonouring to Allah, (Cf. 6:139)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "124",
      "note": "Lit., \"God has not ordained anything [in the nature] of a bahirah, nor a sa'ibah, nor a wasilah, nor a ham.\" These expressions denote certain categories of domestic animals which the pre-Islamic Arabs used to dedicate to their various deities by setting them free to pasture and prohibiting their use or slaughter. They were selected mainly on the basis of the number, sex and sequence of their offspring; but the lexicographers and commentators are by no means unanimous in their attempts at definition. For this reason - as well as because of their inherent complexity the above four terms cannot be translated into any other language; consequently, I am rendering them in the text as \"certain kinds of cattle marked out by superstition and set aside from the use of man\": this being, in the consensus of all authorities, the common denominator of the four categories. It is obvious that their mention at this place (as well as, by implication, in 6:138-139 and 143-144) serves as an illustration of the arbitrary invention of certain supposedly \"religious\" obligations and prohibitions alluded to in the preceding two verses and explained in the corresponding notes."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "A number of Arab Pagan superstitions are referred to. The Pagan mind, not understanding the hidden secrets of nature, attributed certain phenomena to divine anger and were assailed by superstitious fears which haunted their lives. If a she-camel or other female domestic animal had a large number of young, she (or one of her offspring) had her ear slit and she was dedicated to a god; such an animal was a bahirah. On return in safety from a journey, or on recovery from an illness a she-camel was similarly dedicated and let loose for free pasture; she was called a saibah. Where an animal bore twins, certain sacrifices or dedications were made to idols; an animal so dedicated was a wasilah. A stallion-camel dedicated to the gods by certain rites was a ham. The particular examples lead to the general truth; that superstition is due to ignorance, and is degrading to men and dishonouring to Allah, (Cf. 6:139).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "Lit., \"God has not ordained anything [in the nature] of a bahirah, nor a sa'ibah, nor a wasilah, nor a ham.\" These expressions denote certain categories of domestic animals which the pre-Islamic Arabs used to dedicate to their various deities by setting them free to pasture and prohibiting their use or slaughter. They were selected mainly on the basis of the number, sex and sequence of their offspring; but the lexicographers and commentators are by no means unanimous in their attempts at definition. For this reason - as well as because of their inherent complexity the above four terms cannot be translated into any other language; consequently, I am rendering them in the text as \"certain kinds of cattle marked out by superstition and set aside from the use of man\": this being, in the consensus of all authorities, the common denominator of the four categories. It is obvious that their mention at this place (as well as, by implication, in 6:138-139 and 143-144) serves as an illustration of the arbitrary invention of certain supposedly \"religious\" obligations and prohibitions alluded to in the preceding two verses and explained in the corresponding notes.",
  "keywords": null
}