{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 5,
  "verse_no": 69,
  "ar_text": "إِنَّ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَالَّذِينَ هَادُوا وَالصَّابِئُونَ وَالنَّصَارَىٰ مَنْ آمَنَ بِاللَّهِ وَالْيَوْمِ الْآخِرِ وَعَمِلَ صَالِحًا فَلَا خَوْفٌ عَلَيْهِمْ وَلَا هُمْ يَحْزَنُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "إن الذين آمنوا والذين هادوا والصابئون والنصارى من آمن بالله واليوم الآخر وعمل صالحا فلا خوف عليهم ولا هم يحزنون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Those who believe (in the Qur'an), those who follow the Jewish (scriptures), and the Sabians and the Christians,- any who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and work righteousness,- on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Lo! those who believe, and those who are Jews, and Sabaeans, and Christians - Whosoever believeth in Allah and the Last Day and doeth right - there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Surely those who believe and those who are Jews and the Sabians and the Christians whoever believes in Allah and the last day and does good-- they shall have no fear nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Surely, those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah, in His Messenger Muhammad SAW and all that was revealed to him from Allah), those who are the Jews and the Sabians and the Christians, - whosoever believed in Allah and the Last Day, and worked righteousness, on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Verily those who believe, and those who are Judaised, and the Sabians and the Nazarenes - whosoever believeth in Allah and the Last Day and worketh righteously, no fear shall come on them, nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Those who believe, Jews, Sabaeans, and Nazarenes whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day and does good shall neither fear, nor shall they sorrow (as long as they do not reject any of the prophets).",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Surely the Believers, the Jews, the Sabaeans and the Christians, whoso believes in God and the Last Day and acts right, no fear shall be on them nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Surely those who believed, and the Jews, and the Sabians, and the Christians -- whoso believes in God and the Last Day and does good deeds, on them shall come no fear, nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_asad": "for, verily, those who have attained to faith [in this divine writ], as well as those who follow the Jewish faith, and the Sabians, and the Christians &ndash; all who believe in God and the Last Day and do righteous deeds &ndash; no fear need they have, and neither shall they grieve.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Surely they that believe, and those of Jewry, and the Sabaeans, and those Christians, whosoever believes in God and the Last Day, and works righteousness -- no fear shall be on them, neither shall they sorrow.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "(Know well, none has an exclusive claim to the Truth.) For all those who believe in Allah and in the Last Day and do good deeds - be they either believers, Jews, Sabaeans or Christians - neither fear shall fall upon them, nor shall they have any reason to grieve.{{99}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Those who believe (in the Qur?an), those who follow the Jewish (scriptures), and the Sabians and the Christians,- any who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and work righteousness-{{779}} on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "for, verily, those who have attained to faith [in this divine writ], as well as those who follow the Jewish faith, and the Sabians,{{86}} and the Christians - all who believe in God and the Last Day and do righteous deeds - no fear need they have, and neither shall they grieve.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "779",
      "note": "Here, as in Surat al Baqarah (2:62), the Qur'an underscores the importance of true and genuine faith, which is to be judged by a sincere belief in Allah and man's accountability to Him backed by righteous conduct rather than by mere forms or labels. In both places it repudiates the false claims of the People of the Book that they had a special relationship with Allah for they were the children of Abraham; that they were a chosen people with special privileges, and no matter what they did, their high status would remain unaffected. Here this false notion is refuted and the People of the Book are being reminded that it is through sincere belief and righteous conduct rather than pretentious claims that man can win his Lord's pleasure and achieve ultimate success. The verse does not purport to lay down an exhaustive list of the articles of faith. Nor does it seek to spell out the essentials of a genuine belief in Allah, which has no meaning unless it is accompanied by belief in His Prophets for it is through their agency alone that we know Allah's Will and can abide by it in our practical lives. This is especially true of His final Prophet, Muhammad (peace be on him) whose message is universal, and not confined to any particular group or section of humanity. Belief in the Prophethood of Muhammad (peace be on him) is thus an integral part and a logical corollary of belief in Allah. Moreover, it is also an essential test of genuineness of such belief. This becomes clear when the verse is read in conjunction with other relevant verses of the Qur'an. See, for instance, 4:170, 5:16, 21, 7:157, 158, 21:107, 25:1, 33:40, 61:6. See also 2:40, 3:31-32. 4:150-151. (Eds.)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "86",
      "note": "See surah 2, note 49."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Here, as in Surat al Baqarah (2:62), the Qur'an underscores the importance of true and genuine faith, which is to be judged by a sincere belief in Allah and man's accountability to Him backed by righteous conduct rather than by mere forms or labels. In both places it repudiates the false claims of the People of the Book that they had a special relationship with Allah for they were the children of Abraham; that they were a chosen people with special privileges, and no matter what they did, their high status would remain unaffected. Here this false notion is refuted and the People of the Book are being reminded that it is through sincere belief and righteous conduct rather than pretentious claims that man can win his Lord's pleasure and achieve ultimate success. The verse does not purport to lay down an exhaustive list of the articles of faith. Nor does it seek to spell out the essentials of a genuine belief in Allah, which has no meaning unless it is accompanied by belief in His Prophets for it is through their agency alone that we know Allah's Will and can abide by it in our practical lives. This is especially true of His final Prophet, Muhammad (peace be on him) whose message is universal, and not confined to any particular group or section of humanity. Belief in the Prophethood of Muhammad (peace be on him) is thus an integral part and a logical corollary of belief in Allah. Moreover, it is also an essential test of genuineness of such belief. This becomes clear when the verse is read in conjunction with other relevant verses of the Qur'an. See, for instance, 4:170, 5:16, 21, 7:157, 158, 21:107, 25:1, 33:40, 61:6. See also 2:40, 3:31-32. 4:150-151. (Eds.).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "See surah 2, note 49.",
  "keywords": null
}