{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 58,
  "verse_no": 7,
  "ar_text": "أَلَمْ تَرَ أَنَّ اللَّهَ يَعْلَمُ مَا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ مَا يَكُونُ مِنْ نَجْوَىٰ ثَلَاثَةٍ إِلَّا هُوَ رَابِعُهُمْ وَلَا خَمْسَةٍ إِلَّا هُوَ سَادِسُهُمْ وَلَا أَدْنَىٰ مِنْ ذَٰلِكَ وَلَا أَكْثَرَ إِلَّا هُوَ مَعَهُمْ أَيْنَ مَا كَانُوا ثُمَّ يُنَبِّئُهُمْ بِمَا عَمِلُوا يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ إِنَّ اللَّهَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عَلِيمٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ألم تر أن الله يعلم ما في السماوات وما في الأرض ما يكون من نجوى ثلاثة إلا هو رابعهم ولا خمسة إلا هو سادسهم ولا أدنى من ذلك ولا أكثر إلا هو معهم أين ما كانوا ثم ينبئهم بما عملوا يوم القيامة إن الله بكل شيء عليم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Seest thou not that Allah doth know (all) that is in the heavens and on earth? There is not a secret consultation between three, but He makes the fourth among them, - Nor between five but He makes the sixth,- nor between fewer nor more, but He is in their midst, wheresoever they be: In the end will He tell them the truth of their conduct, on the Day of Judgment. For Allah has full knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Hast thou not seen that Allah knoweth all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth? There is no secret conference of three but He is their fourth, nor of five but He is their sixth, nor of less than that or more but He is with them wheresoever they may be; and afterward, on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform them of what they did. Lo! Allah is Knower of all things.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Do you not see that Allah knows whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth? Nowhere is there a secret counsel between three persons but He is the fourth of them, nor (between) five but He is the sixth of them, nor less than that nor more but He is with them wheresoever they are; then He will inform them of what they did on the day of resurrection: surely Allah is Cognizant of all things.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Have you not seen that Allah knows whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is on the earth? There is no Najwa (secret counsel) of three, but He is their fourth (with His Knowledge, while He Himself is over the Throne, over the seventh heaven), nor of five but He is their sixth (with His Knowledge), not of less than that or more, but He is with them (with His Knowledge) wheresoever they may be; and afterwards on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform them of what they did. Verily, Allah is the All-Knower of everything.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Observest thou not that Allah knoweth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth! There is no whispering among three but He is their fourth, nor among five but He is their sixth, nor fewer than that nor more but He is with them wheresoever they may be; and thereafter He will declare Unto them, on the Day of Judgment, that which they have worked. Verily Allah is of everything Knower.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Have you not seen that Allah knows that which is in the heavens and the earth? There is no secret talk between three but He is the fourth of them; nor between five but He is the sixth of them; nor between fewer or more but He is with them wherever they are. Then, on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform them of what they have done. Surely, Allah has knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "Hast thou not seen that God knows whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth? There is no secret counsel of three but He is the fourth of them, nor of five but He is the sixth of them, nor of fewer than that nor of more but He is with them wherever they may be; then, on the Day of Resurrection, He shall tell them what they did; God knows everything.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Seest thou not that God knows all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth? There is no secret counsel of three, but He is their fourth, nor of five but He is their sixth, nor of less than that, nor of more, but He is with them wheresoever they may be. Then on the Day of Resurrection He will inform them of what they did. Surely, God has full knowledge of all things.",
  "en_tr_asad": "ART THOU NOT aware that God knows all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth? \nNever can there be a secret confabulation between three persons without His being the fourth of them, nor between five without His being the sixth of them; and neither between less than that, or more, without His being with them wherever they may be. But in the end, on Resurrection Day, He will make them truly understand what they did: for, verily, God has full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "God has numbered it, and they have forgotten it. God is witness over everything. Hast thou not seen that God knows whatsoever is in the heavens, and whatsoever is in the earth? Three men conspire not secretly together, but He is the fourth of them, neither five men, but He is the sixth of them, neither fewer than that, neither more, but He is with them, wherever they may be; then He shall tell them what they have done, on the Day of Resurrection. Surely God has knowledge of everything.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Are you not aware{{18}} that Allah knows whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth? Never is there any whispering among three but He is their fourth; nor among five but He is their sixth;{{19}} nor fewer nor more but He is with them wherever they may be.{{20}} And then He will tell them on the Day of Judgement all that they have done. Surely Allah knows everything.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Seest thou not that Allah doth know (all) that is in the heavens and on earth? There is not a secret consultation between three, but He makes the fourth among them, -{{5341}} Nor between five but He makes the sixth,- nor between fewer nor more, but He is in their midst, wheresoever they be: In the end will He tell them the truth of their conduct, on the Day of Judgment. For Allah has full knowledge of all things.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "ART THOU NOT aware that God knows all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth? Never can there be a secret confabulation between three persons without His being the fourth of them, nor between five without His being the sixth of them; and neither between less than that, or more, without His being with them wherever they may be. But in the end, on Resurrection Day, He will make them truly understand what they did: for, verily, God has full knowledge of everything.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "5341",
      "note": "Secrecy is a relative and limited term among ourselves. There is nothing hidden or unknown to Allah. Usually secrecy implies fear or distrust, plotting or wrongdoing. But all is open before Allah's sight."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Secrecy is a relative and limited term among ourselves. There is nothing hidden or unknown to Allah. Usually secrecy implies fear or distrust, plotting or wrongdoing. But all is open before Allah's sight.",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}