{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 6,
  "verse_no": 108,
  "ar_text": "وَلَا تَسُبُّوا الَّذِينَ يَدْعُونَ مِنْ دُونِ اللَّهِ فَيَسُبُّوا اللَّهَ عَدْوًا بِغَيْرِ عِلْمٍ كَذَٰلِكَ زَيَّنَّا لِكُلِّ أُمَّةٍ عَمَلَهُمْ ثُمَّ إِلَىٰ رَبِّهِمْ مَرْجِعُهُمْ فَيُنَبِّئُهُمْ بِمَا كَانُوا يَعْمَلُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "ولا تسبوا الذين يدعون من دون الله فيسبوا الله عدوا بغير علم كذلك زينا لكل أمة عملهم ثم إلى ربهم مرجعهم فينبئهم بما كانوا يعملون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Revile not ye those whom they call upon besides Allah, lest they out of spite revile Allah in their ignorance. Thus have We made alluring to each people its own doings. In the end will they return to their Lord, and We shall then tell them the truth of all that they did.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Revile not those unto whom they pray beside Allah lest they wrongfully revile Allah through ignorance. Thus unto every nation have We made their deed seem fair. Then unto their Lord is their return, and He will tell them what they used to do.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And do not abuse those whom they call upon besides Allah, lest exceeding the limits they should abuse Allah out of ignorance. Thus have We made fair seeming to every people their deeds; then to their Lord shall be their return, so He will inform them of what they did.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And insult not those whom they (disbelievers) worship besides Allah, lest they insult Allah wrongfully without knowledge. Thus We have made fair-seeming to each people its own doings; then to their Lord is their return and He shall then inform them of all that they used to do.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Revile not those whom they invoke besides Allah, lest they may spitefully revile Allah without knowledge. Thus fair-seeming unto every community We have made their work. Then unto their Lord is their return, and then He will declare unto them that which they were wont to work.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Do not say crude words to those who call upon other than Allah, lest they use crude words about Allah in revenge without knowledge. As such we have made the actions of each nation seem pleasing. To their Lord they shall return, and He will inform them of that they were doing.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And do not abuse those whom they call upon, apart from God, for then they will abuse God out of spite in ignorance. Thus We have adorned to every community their deed, then to their Lord shall they return, and He will tell them what they have been doing.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And abuse not those whom they call upon besides God, lest they, out of spite, abuse God in their ignorance. Thus unto every people have We caused their doings to seem fair. Then unto their Lord is their return; And He will inform them of what they used to do.",
  "en_tr_asad": "But do not revile those [beings] whom they invoke instead of God, lest they revile God out of spite, and in ignorance: for goodly indeed have We made their own doings appear unto every community. In time, [however,] unto their Sustainer they must return: and then He will make them [truly] understand all that they were doing.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "Abuse not those to whom they pray, apart from God, or they will abuse God in revenge without knowledge. So We have decked out fair to every nation their deeds; then to their Lord they shall return, and He will tell them what they have been doing.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Do not revile those whom they invoke other than Allah, because they will revile Allah in ignorance out of spite. {{72}} For We have indeed made the deeds of every people seem fair to them.{{73}} Then, their return is to their Lord and He will inform them of what they have done.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Revile not ye those whom they call upon besides Allah, lest they out of spite revile Allah in their ignorance. Thus have We made alluring to each people{{936}} its own doings. In the end will they return to their Lord, and We shall then tell them the truth of all that they did.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "But do not revile those [beings] whom they invoke instead of God,{{92}} lest they revile God out of spite, and in ignorance: for, goodly indeed have We made their own doings appear unto every community{{93}} In time, [however,] unto their Sustainer they must return: and then He will make them [truly] understand all that they were doing.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "936",
      "note": "A man's actual personal religion depends upon many things: his personal psychology, the background of his life, his hidden or repressed feelings, tendencies, or history (which psychoanalysis tries to unravel), his hereditary dispositions or antipathies, and all the subtle influences of his education and his environment. The task before the man of God is: (1) to use any of these which can subserve the higher ends; (2) to purify such as have been misused; (3) to introduce new ideas and modes of looking at things; and (4) to combat what is wrong and cannot be mended-all for the purpose of leading to the truth and gradually letting in spiritual light where there was darkness before. If that is not done with discretion and the skill of a spiritual Teacher, there may be not only a reaction of obstinacy, but an unseemly show of dishonour to the true God and His Truth, and doubts would spread among the weaker brethren whose faith is shallow and infirm. What happens to individuals is true collectively of nations or groups of people. They think in their self-obsession that their own ideas are right. Allah in His infinite compassion bears with them, and asks those who have purer ideas of faith not to vilify the weaknesses of their neighbours, lest the neighbours in their turn vilify the real truth and make matters even worse than before. Insofar as there are mistakes, Allah will forgive and send His grace for helping ignorance and folly. Insofar as there is active evil, He will deal with it in His own way. Of course the righteous man must not hide his light under a bushel, or compromise with evil, or refuse to establish right living where he has the power to do so."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "92",
      "note": "This prohibition of reviling anything that other people hold sacred - even in contravention of the principle of God's oneness - is expressed in the plural and is, therefore, addressed to all believers. Thus, while Muslims are expected to argue against the false beliefs of others, they are not allowed to abuse the objects of those beliefs and to hurt thereby the feelings of their erring fellow-men."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "93",
      "note": "Lit., \"thus goodly have We made ...\", etc., implying that it is in the nature of man to regard the beliefs which have been implanted in him from childhood, and which he now shares with his social environment, as the only true and possible ones - with the result that a polemic against those beliefs often tends to provoke a hostile psychological reaction."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "A man's actual personal religion depends upon many things: his personal psychology, the background of his life, his hidden or repressed feelings, tendencies, or history (which psychoanalysis tries to unravel), his hereditary dispositions or antipathies, and all the subtle influences of his education and his environment. The task before the man of God is: (1) to use any of these which can subserve the higher ends; (2) to purify such as have been misused; (3) to introduce new ideas and modes of looking at things; and (4) to combat what is wrong and cannot be mended-all for the purpose of leading to the truth and gradually letting in spiritual light where there was darkness before. If that is not done with discretion and the skill of a spiritual Teacher, there may be not only a reaction of obstinacy, but an unseemly show of dishonour to the true God and His Truth, and doubts would spread among the weaker brethren whose faith is shallow and infirm. What happens to individuals is true collectively of nations or groups of people. They think in their self-obsession that their own ideas are right. Allah in His infinite compassion bears with them, and asks those who have purer ideas of faith not to vilify the weaknesses of their neighbours, lest the neighbours in their turn vilify the real truth and make matters even worse than before. Insofar as there are mistakes, Allah will forgive and send His grace for helping ignorance and folly. Insofar as there is active evil, He will deal with it in His own way. Of course the righteous man must not hide his light under a bushel, or compromise with evil, or refuse to establish right living where he has the power to do so.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "This prohibition of reviling anything that other people hold sacred - even in contravention of the principle of God's oneness - is expressed in the plural and is, therefore, addressed to all believers. Thus, while Muslims are expected to argue against the false beliefs of others, they are not allowed to abuse the objects of those beliefs and to hurt thereby the feelings of their erring fellow-men. Lit., \"thus goodly have We made ...\", etc., implying that it is in the nature of man to regard the beliefs which have been implanted in him from childhood, and which he now shares with his social environment, as the only true and possible ones - with the result that a polemic against those beliefs often tends to provoke a hostile psychological reaction.",
  "keywords": null
}