{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 66,
  "verse_no": 1,
  "ar_text": "يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ لِمَ تُحَرِّمُ مَا أَحَلَّ اللَّهُ لَكَ تَبْتَغِي مَرْضَاتَ أَزْوَاجِكَ وَاللَّهُ غَفُورٌ رَحِيمٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "يا أيها النبي لم تحرم ما أحل الله لك تبتغي مرضات أزواجك والله غفور رحيم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "O Prophet! Why holdest thou to be forbidden that which Allah has made lawful to thee? Thou seekest to please thy consorts. But Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "O Prophet! Why bannest thou that which Allah hath made lawful for thee, seeking to please thy wives? And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "O Prophet! why do you forbid (yourself) that which Allah has made lawful for you; you seek to please your wives; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "O Prophet! Why do you ban (for yourself) that which Allah has made lawful to you, seeking to please your wives? And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "O prophet! why makest thou unlawful that which Allah hath made lawful Unto thee, seeking the good-will of thy wives! And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "O Prophet, why do you forbid that which Allah has made lawful to you. Do you seek to please your wives? ' Allah is the Forgiving, the Most Merciful.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "O Prophet, why dost thou forbid what God has made lawful to thee; thou seekest the good pleasure of thy wives; and God is Forgiving, Merciful.",
  "en_tr_sher": "O Prophet! why dost thou forbid thyself that which God has made lawful to thee. Thou seekest the pleasure of thy wives? And God is Most Forgiving, Merciful.",
  "en_tr_asad": "O PROPHET! Why dost thou, out of a desire to please [one or another of] thy wives, impose [on thyself] a prohibition of something that God has made lawful to thee? \nBut God is much-forgiving, a dispenser of grace:",
  "en_tr_arberry": "It is God who created seven heavens, and of earth their like, between them the Command descending, that you may know that God is powerful over everything and that God encompasses everything in knowledge.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "O Prophet, why do you forbid what Allah has made lawful for you?{{1}} Is it to please your wives?{{2}} Allah is Most Forgiving, Most Compassionate.{{3}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "O Prophet! Why holdest thou to be forbidden that which Allah has{{5529}} made lawful to thee? Thou seekest to please{{5530}} thy consorts. But Allah is Oft- Forgiving, Most Merciful.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "O PROPHET! Why dost thou, out of a desire to please [one or another of] thy wives, impose [on thyself] a prohibition of something that God has made lawful to thee?{{1}} But God is much-forgiving, a dispenser of grace:",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "5529",
      "note": "The Prophet's household was not like other households. The Consorts of Purity were expected to hold a higher standard in behaviour and reticence than ordinary women, as they had higher work to perform. See n. 3706 to 33:28. But they were human beings after all, and were subject to the weaknesses of their sex, and they sometimes failed. The behavior of 'A'ishah once caused serious difficulties: the Prophet's mind was sore distressed, and he renounced the society of his wives for some time. This renunciation seems to be referred to here. The situation was none the less difficult for him because she was a daughter of Abu Bakr, one of the truest and most intimate of his Companions and lieutenants. The commentators usually cite the following incident in connection with the revelation of these verses. It is narrated from 'A'i sh ah, the wife of the Prophet (peace be on him) by al Bukhari, Muslim, al Nasa'i. Abu Dawud and others that the Prophet usually visited his wives daily after 'Asr Prayer. Once it so happened that he stayed longer than usual at the quarters of Zaynab bint Jahsh, for she had received from somewhere some honey which the Prophet liked very much. \"At this\", says 'A'ishah, \"I felt jealous, and I, Hafsah, Sawdah and Safiyah agreed among ourselves that when he visits us each of us would tell him that a peculiar odour came from his mouth as a result of what he had eaten, for we knew that he was particularly sensitive to offensive smells\". So when wives hinted at it, he vowed that he would never again use honey. Thereupon these verses were revealed reminding him that he should not declare to himself unlawful that which Allah had made lawful to him. The important point to bear in mind is that he was at once rectified by revelation, which reinforces the fact that the prophets are always under divine protection, and even the slightest lapse on their part is never left uncorrected. (R)."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "5530",
      "note": "The tender words of admonition addressed to the Consorts in 33:28-34 explain the situation far better than any comments can express. If the Prophet had been a mere husband in the ordinary sense of the term, he could not have held the balance even between his private feelings and his public duties. But he was not an ordinary husband, and he abandoned his renunciation on his realisation of the higher duties with which he was charged, and which required conciliation with firmness."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "1",
      "note": "There are several essentially conflicting - and, therefore, in their aggregate, not very trustworthy reports as to the exact reason or reasons why, at some time during the second half of the Medina period, the Prophet declared on oath that for one month he would have no intercourse with any of his wives. Still, while the exact reason cannot be established with certainty, it is sufficiently clear from the above-mentioned ahadith that this emotional, temporary renunciation of marital life was caused by a display of mutual jealousy among some of the Prophet's wives. In any case, the purport of the above Qur'anic allusion to this incident is not biographical but, rather, intended to bring out a moral lesson applicable to all human situations: namely, the inadmissibility of regarding as forbidden (haram) anything that God has made lawful (halal), even if such an attitude happens to be motivated by the desire to please another person or other persons. Apart from this, it serves to illustrate the fact - repeatedly stressed in the Qur'an - that the Prophet was but a human being, and therefore subject to human emotions and even liable to commit an occasional mistake (which in his case, however, was invariably pointed out to him, and thus rectified, through divine revelation)."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The Prophet's household was not like other households. The Consorts of Purity were expected to hold a higher standard in behaviour and reticence than ordinary women, as they had higher work to perform. See n. 3706 to 33:28. But they were human beings after all, and were subject to the weaknesses of their sex, and they sometimes failed. The behavior of 'A'ishah once caused serious difficulties: the Prophet's mind was sore distressed, and he renounced the society of his wives for some time. This renunciation seems to be referred to here. The situation was none the less difficult for him because she was a daughter of Abu Bakr, one of the truest and most intimate of his Companions and lieutenants. The commentators usually cite the following incident in connection with the revelation of these verses. It is narrated from 'A'i sh ah, the wife of the Prophet (peace be on him) by al Bukhari, Muslim, al Nasa'i. Abu Dawud and others that the Prophet usually visited his wives daily after 'Asr Prayer. Once it so happened that he stayed longer than usual at the quarters of Zaynab bint Jahsh, for she had received from somewhere some honey which the Prophet liked very much. \"At this\", says 'A'ishah, \"I felt jealous, and I, Hafsah, Sawdah and Safiyah agreed among ourselves that when he visits us each of us would tell him that a peculiar odour came from his mouth as a result of what he had eaten, for we knew that he was particularly sensitive to offensive smells\". So when wives hinted at it, he vowed that he would never again use honey. Thereupon these verses were revealed reminding him that he should not declare to himself unlawful that which Allah had made lawful to him. The important point to bear in mind is that he was at once rectified by revelation, which reinforces the fact that the prophets are always under divine protection, and even the slightest lapse on their part is never left uncorrected. (R). The tender words of admonition addressed to the Consorts in 33:28-34 explain the situation far better than any comments can express. If the Prophet had been a mere husband in the ordinary sense of the term, he could not have held the balance even between his private feelings and his public duties. But he was not an ordinary husband, and he abandoned his renunciation on his realisation of the higher duties with which he was charged, and which required conciliation with firmness.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "There are several essentially conflicting - and, therefore, in their aggregate, not very trustworthy reports as to the exact reason or reasons why, at some time during the second half of the Medina period, the Prophet declared on oath that for one month he would have no intercourse with any of his wives. Still, while the exact reason cannot be established with certainty, it is sufficiently clear from the above-mentioned ahadith that this emotional, temporary renunciation of marital life was caused by a display of mutual jealousy among some of the Prophet's wives. In any case, the purport of the above Qur'anic allusion to this incident is not biographical but, rather, intended to bring out a moral lesson applicable to all human situations: namely, the inadmissibility of regarding as forbidden (haram) anything that God has made lawful (halal), even if such an attitude happens to be motivated by the desire to please another person or other persons. Apart from this, it serves to illustrate the fact - repeatedly stressed in the Qur'an - that the Prophet was but a human being, and therefore subject to human emotions and even liable to commit an occasional mistake (which in his case, however, was invariably pointed out to him, and thus rectified, through divine revelation).",
  "keywords": null
}