{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 7,
  "verse_no": 137,
  "ar_text": "وَأَوْرَثْنَا الْقَوْمَ الَّذِينَ كَانُوا يُسْتَضْعَفُونَ مَشَارِقَ الْأَرْضِ وَمَغَارِبَهَا الَّتِي بَارَكْنَا فِيهَا وَتَمَّتْ كَلِمَتُ رَبِّكَ الْحُسْنَىٰ عَلَىٰ بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ بِمَا صَبَرُوا وَدَمَّرْنَا مَا كَانَ يَصْنَعُ فِرْعَوْنُ وَقَوْمُهُ وَمَا كَانُوا يَعْرِشُونَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وأورثنا القوم الذين كانوا يستضعفون مشارق الأرض ومغاربها التي باركنا فيها وتمت كلمت ربك الحسنى على بني إسرائيل بما صبروا ودمرنا ما كان يصنع فرعون وقومه وما كانوا يعرشون",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And We made a people, considered weak (and of no account), inheritors of lands in both east and west, - lands whereon We sent down Our blessings. The fair promise of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children of Israel, because they had patience and constancy, and We levelled to the ground the great works and fine buildings which Pharaoh and his people erected (with such pride).",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And We caused the folk who were despised to inherit the eastern parts of the land and the western parts thereof which We had blessed. And the fair word of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children of Israel because of their endurance; and We annihilated (all) that Pharaoh and his folk had done and that they had contrived.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And We made the people who were deemed weak to mhent the eastern lands and the western ones which We had blessed; and the good word of your Lord was fulfilled in the children of Israel because they bore up (sufferings) patiently; and We utterly destroyed what Firon and his people had wrought and what they built.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And We made the people who were considered weak to inherit the eastern parts of the land and the western parts thereof which We have blessed. And the fair Word of your Lord was fulfilled for the Children of Israel, because of their endurance. And We destroyed completely all the great works and buildings which Fir'aun (Pharaoh) and his people erected.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And We caused the people who had been oppressed to inherit the eastern parts of the land, and the western parts thereof, which We had blest. And fulfilled was the good word of thy Lord unto the Children of Isra'il' for they were long-suffering, and We destroyed that which Fir'awn and his people had builded and that which they had raised.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "We gave the persecuted nation dominion over the eastern and western lands which We had blessed. So the Word of your Lord, the finest, was fulfilled for the Children of Israel because of their patience; and We destroyed the edifices, and towers of Pharaoh and whatsoever they manufactured.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And We made the people that were oppressed to inherit the east and the west of the land We had blessed; and the most fair word of thy Lord was fulfilled upon the Children of Israel for that they showed patience; and We utterly destroyed what Pharaoh and his people made and what they built.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And We caused the people who were considered weak to inherit the eastern parts of the land and the western parts thereof, which We blessed. And the gracious word of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children of Israel because they were steadfast; and We utterly destroyed all that Pharaoh and his people has built and all that they had erected.",
  "en_tr_asad": "whereas unto the people who [in the past] had been deemed utterly low, We gave as their heritage the eastern and western parts of the land that We had blessed. \nAnd [thus] thy Sustainer's good promise unto the children of Israel was fulfilled in result of their patience in adversity; whereas We utterly destroyed all that Pharaoh and his people had wrought, and all that they had built.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "And We bequeathed upon the people that were abased all the east and the west of the land We had blessed; and perfectly was fulfilled the most fair word of thy Lord upon the Children of Israel, for that they endured patiently; and We destroyed utterly the works of Pharaoh and his people, and what they had been building.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "And We made those who had been persecuted inherit the eastern and western lands which We had blessed.{{97}} Thus your Lord's gracious promise was fulfilled to the Children of Israel, for they had endured with patience; and We destroyed all that Pharaoh and his people had wrought, and all that they had built.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And We made a people, considered weak (and of no account), inheritors of lands in both east and west, - lands whereon We sent down Our blessings. The fair promise of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children of Israel, because they had patience and constancy, and We levelled to the ground the great works and fine buildings which Pharaoh and his people erected (with such pride).{{1096}}",
  "en_ctr_asad": "whereas unto the people who [in the past] had been deemed utterly low, We gave as their heritage the eastern and western parts of the land that We had blessed.{{98}} And [thus] thy Sustainer's good promise unto the children of Israel was fulfilled in result of their patience in adversity;{{99}} whereas We utterly destroyed all that Pharaoh and his people had wrought, and all that they had built.{{100}}",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1096",
      "note": "Israel, which was despised, became a great and glorious nation under Solomon. He had goodly territory, and was doubly-blest. His land and people were prosperous, and he was blessed with wisdom from Allah. His sway and his fame spread east and west. And thus Allah's promise to Israel was fulfilled. Note that Syria and Palestine had once been under the sway of Egypt. At the same time the proud and rebellious Pharaoh and his people were brought low. The splendid monuments which they had erected with so much skill and pride were mingled with the dust Their great cities -Thebes (or No-Ammon), Memphis (or Noph, sacred to the Bull of Osiris), and the other splendid cities, became as if they had not existed, and archaeologists have had to dig up their ruins from the sands. The splendid monuments-temples, palaces, tombs, statues, columns, and stately structures of all kinds-were buried in the sands. Even monuments like the Great Sphinx, which seem to defy the ages, were partly buried in the sands, and owe their rescue to the comparatively recent researches of archaeologists. As late as 1743 Richard Pococke in his Travels in Egypt (p. 41), remarked: \"Most of those pyramids are very much ruined.\" (R)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "98",
      "note": "Palestine is spoken of as \"blessed\" because it was the land in which Abraham, Isaac and Jacob had lived, and because so many other prophets were to appear there."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "99",
      "note": "The promise of God referred to here is the one given to the children of Israel through Moses (see verses 128 and 129)."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "100",
      "note": "The story of the suffering of the Israelites during their bondage in Egypt, their deliverance through Moses, their crossing of the Red Sea (or, more probably, of what today is known as the Gulf of Suez) and the destruction of Pharaoh and his hosts is narrated in considerable detail in the Bible (Exodus i-xiv). The Qur'an, on the other hand, does not give us a consecutive narrative: for historical narrative as such is never its purpose. Whenever the Qur'an refers to past events whether recorded in the Bible or alive in Arabian tradition - it does so exclusively with a view to bringing out elements that are relevant to the ethical, teachings which it propounds."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "Israel, which was despised, became a great and glorious nation under Solomon. He had goodly territory, and was doubly-blest. His land and people were prosperous, and he was blessed with wisdom from Allah. His sway and his fame spread east and west. And thus Allah's promise to Israel was fulfilled. Note that Syria and Palestine had once been under the sway of Egypt. At the same time the proud and rebellious Pharaoh and his people were brought low. The splendid monuments which they had erected with so much skill and pride were mingled with the dust Their great cities -Thebes (or No-Ammon), Memphis (or Noph, sacred to the Bull of Osiris), and the other splendid cities, became as if they had not existed, and archaeologists have had to dig up their ruins from the sands. The splendid monuments-temples, palaces, tombs, statues, columns, and stately structures of all kinds-were buried in the sands. Even monuments like the Great Sphinx, which seem to defy the ages, were partly buried in the sands, and owe their rescue to the comparatively recent researches of archaeologists. As late as 1743 Richard Pococke in his Travels in Egypt (p. 41), remarked: \"Most of those pyramids are very much ruined.\" (R).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "Palestine is spoken of as \"blessed\" because it was the land in which Abraham, Isaac and Jacob had lived, and because so many other prophets were to appear there. The promise of God referred to here is the one given to the children of Israel through Moses (see verses 128 and 129). The story of the suffering of the Israelites during their bondage in Egypt, their deliverance through Moses, their crossing of the Red Sea (or, more probably, of what today is known as the Gulf of Suez) and the destruction of Pharaoh and his hosts is narrated in considerable detail in the Bible (Exodus i-xiv). The Qur'an, on the other hand, does not give us a consecutive narrative: for historical narrative as such is never its purpose. Whenever the Qur'an refers to past events whether recorded in the Bible or alive in Arabian tradition - it does so exclusively with a view to bringing out elements that are relevant to the ethical, teachings which it propounds.",
  "keywords": null
}