{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 7,
  "verse_no": 146,
  "ar_text": "سَأَصْرِفُ عَنْ آيَاتِيَ الَّذِينَ يَتَكَبَّرُونَ فِي الْأَرْضِ بِغَيْرِ الْحَقِّ وَإِنْ يَرَوْا كُلَّ آيَةٍ لَا يُؤْمِنُوا بِهَا وَإِنْ يَرَوْا سَبِيلَ الرُّشْدِ لَا يَتَّخِذُوهُ سَبِيلًا وَإِنْ يَرَوْا سَبِيلَ الْغَيِّ يَتَّخِذُوهُ سَبِيلًا ذَٰلِكَ بِأَنَّهُمْ كَذَّبُوا بِآيَاتِنَا وَكَانُوا عَنْهَا غَافِلِينَ",
  "ar_text_clean": "سأصرف عن آياتي الذين يتكبرون في الأرض بغير الحق وإن يروا كل آية لا يؤمنوا بها وإن يروا سبيل الرشد لا يتخذوه سبيلا وإن يروا سبيل الغي يتخذوه سبيلا ذلك بأنهم كذبوا بآياتنا وكانوا عنها غافلين",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Those who behave arrogantly on the earth in defiance of right - them will I turn away from My signs: Even if they see all the signs, they will not believe in them; and if they see the way of right conduct, they will not adopt it as the way; but if they see the way of error, that is the way they will adopt. For they have rejected our signs, and failed to take warning from them.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "I shall turn away from My revelations those who magnify themselves wrongfully in the earth, and if they see each token believe it not, and if they see the way of righteousness choose it nor for (their) way, and if they see the way of error choose if for (their) way. That is because they deny Our revelations and are used to disregard them.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "I will turn away from My communications those who are unjustly proud in the earth; and if they see every sign they will not believe in It; and if they see the way of rectitude they do not take It for a way, and if they see the way of error. they take it for a way; this is because they rejected Our communications and were heedless of them.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "I shall turn away from My Ayat (verses of the Qur'an) those who behave arrogantly on the earth, without a right, and (even) if they see all the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.), they will not believe in them. And if they see the way of righteousness (monotheism, piety, and good deeds), they will not adopt it as the Way, but if they see the way of error (polytheism, crimes and evil deeds), they will adopt that way, that is because they have rejected Our Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) and were heedless (to learn a lesson) from them.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "I shall turn away from My signs those who are big with pride on the earth, without justice, and although they may see every sign, they will not believe therein; and if they see the path of rectitude they will not take it as their path, and if they see the path of error they will take it for their path. This is because they belied Our signs, and they were ever negligent thereof.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "From My signs I will turn away the unrightfully, arrogant in the land, so that even if they witness every sign they would not believe it. If they see the path of righteousness, they shall not take it as a path; but if they see the path of error, they shall take it for their path because they belied Our signs and were inattentive towards them.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "I shall turn from My signs those who show arrogance in the earth without right; for if they see every sign, they will not believe in it; and if they see the way of rectitude, they will not take it for a way, and if they see the way of perversion, they will take it for a way; that is because they give lies to Our signs and are heedless of them. ",
  "en_tr_sher": "I shall soon turn away from My Signs those who behave proudly in the land in an unjust manner; and even if they see all the Signs, they will not believe therein; and if they see the way of righteousness, they will not adopt it as their way; but if they see the way of error, they will adopt it as their way. That is because they treated Our Signs as lies and were heedless of them.",
  "en_tr_asad": "From My messages shall I cause to turn away all those who, without any right, behave haughtily on earth: for, though they may see every sign [of the truth], they do not believe in it, and though they may see the path of rectitude, they do not choose to follow it &ndash; whereas, if they see a path of error, they take it for their own: this, because they have given the lie to Our messages, and have remained heedless of them.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "I shall turn from My signs those who wax proud in the earth unjustly; though they see every sign, they will not believe in it, and though they see the way of rectitude they will not take it for a way, and though they see the way of error, they will take it for a way. That, because they have cried lies to Our signs and heeded them not.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "I shall turn away from My signs those who, without any right, behaved haughtily in the earth,{{104}} even if they may, witness each and every, sign, they shall not believe therein. And even if they see the right path, they shall still not follow it; but if they see the path of error, they shall choose it for their path. This is because they rejected Our signs as false and were heedless to them.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Those who behave arrogantly on the earth in defiance of right - them will I turn away from My signs:{{1110}} Even if they see all the signs, they will not believe in them; and if they see the way of right conduct, they will not adopt it as the way; but if they see the way of error, that is the way they will adopt. For they have rejected{{1111}} our signs, and failed to take warning from them.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "From My messages shall I cause to turn away all those who, without any right, behave haughtily on earth: for, though they may see every sign [of the truth], they do not believe in it, and though they may see the path of rectitude, they do not choose fo follow it - whereas, if they see a path of error, they take it for their own: this, because they have given the lie to Our messages, and have remained heedless ofthem.{{110}}",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1110",
      "note": "The argument may be simplified thus in paraphrase. The right is established on the earth as Allah created it: Nature recognises and obeys Allah's law as fixed for each portion of Creation. But man, because of the gift of Will, sometimes upsets this balance. The root-cause is his arrogance, as it was in the case of Iblis. Allah's Signs are everywhere, but if they are rejected with scorn and blasphemy, Allah will withdraw His grace, for sin hardens the heart and makes it impervious to the truth. Want of faith produces a kind of blindness to spiritual facts, a kind of deafness to the warnings of a Day of Account. If we had contumaciously rejected faith, can we hope for anything but justice?the just punishment of our sins? (R)."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "1111",
      "note": "Rejected Our Signs: again a return to the Plural of impersonal Dignity and Authority, from the singular of personal concern in granting grace and guidance to the righteous."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "110",
      "note": "As so often in the Qur'an, God's \"causing\" the sinners to sin is shown to be a consequence of their own behaviour and the result of their free choice. By \"those who, without any right, behave haughtily on earth\" are obviously meant people who think that their own judgment as to what constitutes right and wrong is the only valid one, and who therefore refuse to submit their personal concerns to the criterion of absolute (i.e., revealed) moral standards; cf. 96:6-7 - \"man becomes grossly overweening whenever he believes himself to be self-sufficient\"."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The argument may be simplified thus in paraphrase. The right is established on the earth as Allah created it: Nature recognises and obeys Allah's law as fixed for each portion of Creation. But man, because of the gift of Will, sometimes upsets this balance. The root-cause is his arrogance, as it was in the case of Iblis. Allah's Signs are everywhere, but if they are rejected with scorn and blasphemy, Allah will withdraw His grace, for sin hardens the heart and makes it impervious to the truth. Want of faith produces a kind of blindness to spiritual facts, a kind of deafness to the warnings of a Day of Account. If we had contumaciously rejected faith, can we hope for anything but justice?the just punishment of our sins? (R). Rejected Our Signs: again a return to the Plural of impersonal Dignity and Authority, from the singular of personal concern in granting grace and guidance to the righteous.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "As so often in the Qur'an, God's \"causing\" the sinners to sin is shown to be a consequence of their own behaviour and the result of their free choice. By \"those who, without any right, behave haughtily on earth\" are obviously meant people who think that their own judgment as to what constitutes right and wrong is the only valid one, and who therefore refuse to submit their personal concerns to the criterion of absolute (i.e., revealed) moral standards; cf. 96:6-7 - \"man becomes grossly overweening whenever he believes himself to be self-sufficient\".",
  "keywords": null
}