{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 7,
  "verse_no": 73,
  "ar_text": "وَإِلَىٰ ثَمُودَ أَخَاهُمْ صَالِحًا قَالَ يَا قَوْمِ اعْبُدُوا اللَّهَ مَا لَكُمْ مِنْ إِلَٰهٍ غَيْرُهُ قَدْ جَاءَتْكُمْ بَيِّنَةٌ مِنْ رَبِّكُمْ هَٰذِهِ نَاقَةُ اللَّهِ لَكُمْ آيَةً فَذَرُوهَا تَأْكُلْ فِي أَرْضِ اللَّهِ وَلَا تَمَسُّوهَا بِسُوءٍ فَيَأْخُذَكُمْ عَذَابٌ أَلِيمٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وإلى ثمود أخاهم صالحا قال يا قوم اعبدوا الله ما لكم من إله غيره قد جاءتكم بينة من ربكم هذه ناقة الله لكم آية فذروها تأكل في أرض الله ولا تمسوها بسوء فيأخذكم عذاب أليم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "To the Thamud people (We sent) Salih, one of their own brethren: He said: \"O my people! worship Allah: ye have no other god but Him. Now hath come unto you a clear (Sign) from your Lord! This she-camel of Allah is a Sign unto you: So leave her to graze in Allah's earth, and let her come to no harm, or ye shall be seized with a grievous punishment.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And to (the tribe of) Thamud (We sent) their brother Salih. He said: O my people! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him. A wonder from your Lord hath come unto you. Lo! this is the camel of Allah, a token unto you; so let her feed in Allah's earth, and touch her not with hurt lest painful torment seize you.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And to Samood (We sent) their brother Salih. He said: O my people! serve Allah, you have no god other than Him; clear proof indeed has come to you from your Lord; this is (as) Allah's she-camel for you-- a sign, therefore leave her alone to pasture on Allah's earth, and do not touch her with any harm, otherwise painful chastisement will overtake you.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And to Thamud (people, We sent) their brother Salih (Saleh). He said: \"O my people! Worship Allah! You have no other Ilah (God) but Him. (La ilaha ill-Allah: none has the right to be worshipped but Allah). Indeed there has come to you a clear sign (the miracle of the coming out of a huge she-camel from the midst of a rock) from your Lord. This she-camel of Allah is a sign unto you; so you leave her to graze in Allah's earth, and touch her not with harm, lest a painful torment should seize you.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And unto Thamud We sent their brother, Salih He said: my people! worship Allah, no god ye have but He; surely there hath come unto you an evidence from your Lord. Yonder is the she-camel of Allah: a sign unto you; so leave her alone, pasturing on Allah's earth, and touch her not with evil, lest there seize you a torment afflictive.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "And to Thamood We sent their brother Salih. He said: 'Worship Allah, my nation, for you have no god except He. A clear proof has come to you from your Lord. Here is the shecamel of Allah, a sign for you. Leave her to graze in the earth of Allah and do not touch her with evil, lest a painful punishment seizes you.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And to Thamood (We sent) their brother Salih; he said, `my people, serve God, you have no god other than He; there has come to you a Clear Sign from your Lord; this She-camel of God is a Sign for you, so leave her to eat on God's earth, and do not touch her with evil, lest a painful punishment should seize you.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And to Thamud We sent their brother Salih. He said, 'O my people, worship God; you have no god other than Him. Verily, there has come to you a clear evidence from your Lord -- this she-camel of God, a Sign for you. So leave her that she may feed in God's earth and do her no harm, lest a punishment seize you;",
  "en_tr_asad": "AND UNTO [the tribe of] Tham&#363;d [We sent] their brother S&#257;lih. He said: \"O my people! Worship God alone: you have no deity other than Him. Clear evidence of the truth has now come unto you from your Sustainer. \n\"This she-camel belonging to God shall be a token for you: so leave her alone to pasture on God's earth, and do her no harm, lest grievous chastisement befall you.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "And to Thamood their brother Salih; he said, O my people, serve God! You have no god other than He; there has now come to you a clear sign from your Lord -- this is the She-camel of God, to be a sign for you. Leave her that she may eat in Gods earth, and do not touch her with evil, lest you be seized by a painful chastisement.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "And to Thamud{{57}} We sent forth their brother. Salih. He said to them: 'O my people! Serve Allah, you have no other god than Him. Truly there has come to you a clear proof from your Lord. This she-camel from Allah is a Divine portent for you.{{58}} So leave her alone to pasture on Allah's earth, and touch her with no evil lest a painful chastisement should seize you.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "To the Thamud people{{1043}} (We sent) Salih, one of their own brethren: He said: \"O my people! worship Allah. ye have no other god but Him. Now hath come unto you a clear (Sign) from your Lord! This she-camel of Allah is a Sign unto you: So leave her to graze in Allah's earth, and let her come to no harm, or ye shall be seized with a grievous punishment.{{1044}}",
  "en_ctr_asad": "AND UNTO [the tribe of] Thamud [We sent] their brother Salih{{56}} He said: \"O my people! Worship God alone: you have no deity other than Him. Clear evidence of the truth has now come unto you from your Sustainer. \"This she-camel belonging to God shall be a token for you: so leave her alone to pasture on God's earth, and do her no harm, lest grievous chastisement befall you.{{57}}",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1043",
      "note": "The Thamud people were the successors to the culture and civilisation of the 'Ad people, for whom see n. 1040 and 7:65 above. They were cousins to the 'Ad, apparently a younger branch of the same race. Their story also belongs to Arabian tradition, according to which their eponymous ancestor Thamud was a son of 'Abir (a brother of Aram), the son of Sam, the son of Noah. Their seat was in the northwest corner of Arabia (Arabia Petraea), between Madman and Syria. It included both rocky country (hijr, 15:80), and the spacious fertile valley (Wadi) and plains country of Qura, which begins just north of the City of Madinah and was traversed by the Hijaz Railway. When the Prophet in the 9th year of the Hijrah led his expedition to Tabuk (about 400 miles north of Madinah) against the Roman forces, on a reported Roman invasion from Syria, he and his men came across the archaeological remains of Thamud. The recently excavated rock city of Petra, near Ma'an, may go back to Thamud, though its architecture has many features connecting it with Egyptian and Graeco-Roman culture overlaying what is called by European writers Nabataean culture. Who were the Nabataeans? They were an old Arab tribe which played a considerable part in history after they came into conflict with Antigonus 1 in 312 B.C. Their capital was Petra, but they extended their territory right up to the Euphrates. In 85 B.C. they were lords of Damascus under their king Haritha (Aretas of Roman history). For some time they were allies of the Roman Empire and held the Red Sea littoral. The Emperor Trajan reduced them and annexed their territory in A.C. 105. The Nabataeans succeeded Thamud of Arabian tradition. Thamud are mentioned by name in an inscription of the Assyrian King Sargon, dated 715 B.C., as a people of Eastern and Central Arabia (Encyclopedia, of Islam). See also Appendix VII to S. 26. With the advance of material civilisation, Thamud people became godless and arrogant, and were destroyed by an earthquake. Their prophet and warner was Salih, and the crisis in their history is connected with the story of a wonderful shecamel: see next note."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "1044",
      "note": "The story of this wonderful she-camel, that was a sign Lo the Thamud, is variously told in tradition. We need not follow the various versions in the traditional story. What we are told in the Qur'an is: that (1) she was a Sign or Symbol, which the Prophet Salih, used for a warning to the haughty oppressors of the poor; (2) there was scarcity of water, and the arrogant or privileged classes tried to prevent the access of the poor or their cattle to the springs, while Salih intervened on their behalf (26:155, 54:28); (3) like water, pasture was considered a free gift of nature, in this spacious earth of Allah (7:73), but the arrogant ones tried to monopolise the pasture also; (4) this particular she-camel was made a test case (54:27) to see if the arrogant ones would come to reason; (5) the arrogant ones, instead of yielding to the reasonable rights of the people, hamstrung the poor shecamel and slew her, probably secretly (91:14, 54:29); the cup of their iniquities was full, and the Thamud people were destroyed by a dreadful earthquake, which threw them prone on the ground and buried them with their houses and their fine buildings."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "56",
      "note": "The Nabataean tribe of Thamud descended from the tribe of 'Ad mentioned in the preceding passage, and is, therefore, often referred to in pre-Islamic poetry as the \"Second Ad\". Apart from Arabian sources, \"a series of older references, not of Arabian origin, confirm the historical existence of the name and people of Thamud. Thus the inscription of Sargon of the year 715 B.C. mentions the Thamud among the people of eastern and central Arabia subjected by the Assyrians. We also find the Thamudaei, Thamudenes mentioned in Aristo, Ptolemy, and Pliny\" (Encyclopaedia of Islam IV, 736). At the time of which the Qur'an speaks, the Thamud were settled in the northernmost Hijaz, near the confines of Syria. Rock-inscriptions attributed to them are still extant in the region of Al-Hijr - As in the case of the Adite prophet Hud - and the prophet Shu'ayb spoken of in verses 85-93 of this surah - Salih is called the \"brother\" of the tribe because he belonged to it."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "57",
      "note": "The commentators cite various legends to the effect that this she-camel was of miraculous origin. Since neither the Qur'an nor any authentic Tradition provides the least support for these legends, we must assume that they are based on the expression naqat Allah (\"God's she-camel\"), which has led some pious Muslims to fantastic conjectures. However, as Rashid Riza' points out (Manar VIII, 502), this expression denotes merely the fact that the animal in question was not owned by any one person, and was therefore to be protected by the whole tribe; a further, analogous expression is found in the words \"God's earth\" in the same verse: an illustration of the fact that everything belongs to God. The particular stress placed by Salih on good treatment of this ownerless animal - referred to in several places in the Qur'an - was obviously due to the cruel high-handedness displayed by the tribe, who, as the next two verses show, were wont to \"act wickedly on earth by spreading corruption\" and \"gloried in their arrogance towards all who were deemed weak\": in other words, their treatment of the defenceless animal was to be a \"token\" of their change of heart or (as is made clear in 54:27) \"a test for them\"."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The Thamud people were the successors to the culture and civilisation of the 'Ad people, for whom see n. 1040 and 7:65 above. They were cousins to the 'Ad, apparently a younger branch of the same race. Their story also belongs to Arabian tradition, according to which their eponymous ancestor Thamud was a son of 'Abir (a brother of Aram), the son of Sam, the son of Noah. Their seat was in the northwest corner of Arabia (Arabia Petraea), between Madman and Syria. It included both rocky country (hijr, 15:80), and the spacious fertile valley (Wadi) and plains country of Qura, which begins just north of the City of Madinah and was traversed by the Hijaz Railway. When the Prophet in the 9th year of the Hijrah led his expedition to Tabuk (about 400 miles north of Madinah) against the Roman forces, on a reported Roman invasion from Syria, he and his men came across the archaeological remains of Thamud. The recently excavated rock city of Petra, near Ma'an, may go back to Thamud, though its architecture has many features connecting it with Egyptian and Graeco-Roman culture overlaying what is called by European writers Nabataean culture. Who were the Nabataeans? They were an old Arab tribe which played a considerable part in history after they came into conflict with Antigonus 1 in 312 B.C. Their capital was Petra, but they extended their territory right up to the Euphrates. In 85 B.C. they were lords of Damascus under their king Haritha (Aretas of Roman history). For some time they were allies of the Roman Empire and held the Red Sea littoral. The Emperor Trajan reduced them and annexed their territory in A.C. 105. The Nabataeans succeeded Thamud of Arabian tradition. Thamud are mentioned by name in an inscription of the Assyrian King Sargon, dated 715 B.C., as a people of Eastern and Central Arabia (Encyclopedia, of Islam). See also Appendix VII to S. 26. With the advance of material civilisation, Thamud people became godless and arrogant, and were destroyed by an earthquake. Their prophet and warner was Salih, and the crisis in their history is connected with the story of a wonderful shecamel: see next note. The story of this wonderful she-camel, that was a sign Lo the Thamud, is variously told in tradition. We need not follow the various versions in the traditional story. What we are told in the Qur'an is: that (1) she was a Sign or Symbol, which the Prophet Salih, used for a warning to the haughty oppressors of the poor; (2) there was scarcity of water, and the arrogant or privileged classes tried to prevent the access of the poor or their cattle to the springs, while Salih intervened on their behalf (26:155, 54:28); (3) like water, pasture was considered a free gift of nature, in this spacious earth of Allah (7:73), but the arrogant ones tried to monopolise the pasture also; (4) this particular she-camel was made a test case (54:27) to see if the arrogant ones would come to reason; (5) the arrogant ones, instead of yielding to the reasonable rights of the people, hamstrung the poor shecamel and slew her, probably secretly (91:14, 54:29); the cup of their iniquities was full, and the Thamud people were destroyed by a dreadful earthquake, which threw them prone on the ground and buried them with their houses and their fine buildings.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "The Nabataean tribe of Thamud descended from the tribe of 'Ad mentioned in the preceding passage, and is, therefore, often referred to in pre-Islamic poetry as the \"Second Ad\". Apart from Arabian sources, \"a series of older references, not of Arabian origin, confirm the historical existence of the name and people of Thamud. Thus the inscription of Sargon of the year 715 B.C. mentions the Thamud among the people of eastern and central Arabia subjected by the Assyrians. We also find the Thamudaei, Thamudenes mentioned in Aristo, Ptolemy, and Pliny\" (Encyclopaedia of Islam IV, 736). At the time of which the Qur'an speaks, the Thamud were settled in the northernmost Hijaz, near the confines of Syria. Rock-inscriptions attributed to them are still extant in the region of Al-Hijr - As in the case of the Adite prophet Hud - and the prophet Shu'ayb spoken of in verses 85-93 of this surah - Salih is called the \"brother\" of the tribe because he belonged to it. The commentators cite various legends to the effect that this she-camel was of miraculous origin. Since neither the Qur'an nor any authentic Tradition provides the least support for these legends, we must assume that they are based on the expression naqat Allah (\"God's she-camel\"), which has led some pious Muslims to fantastic conjectures. However, as Rashid Riza' points out (Manar VIII, 502), this expression denotes merely the fact that the animal in question was not owned by any one person, and was therefore to be protected by the whole tribe; a further, analogous expression is found in the words \"God's earth\" in the same verse: an illustration of the fact that everything belongs to God. The particular stress placed by Salih on good treatment of this ownerless animal - referred to in several places in the Qur'an - was obviously due to the cruel high-handedness displayed by the tribe, who, as the next two verses show, were wont to \"act wickedly on earth by spreading corruption\" and \"gloried in their arrogance towards all who were deemed weak\": in other words, their treatment of the defenceless animal was to be a \"token\" of their change of heart or (as is made clear in 54:27) \"a test for them\".",
  "keywords": null
}