{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 9,
  "verse_no": 100,
  "ar_text": "وَالسَّابِقُونَ الْأَوَّلُونَ مِنَ الْمُهَاجِرِينَ وَالْأَنْصَارِ وَالَّذِينَ اتَّبَعُوهُمْ بِإِحْسَانٍ رَضِيَ اللَّهُ عَنْهُمْ وَرَضُوا عَنْهُ وَأَعَدَّ لَهُمْ جَنَّاتٍ تَجْرِي تَحْتَهَا الْأَنْهَارُ خَالِدِينَ فِيهَا أَبَدًا ذَٰلِكَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِيمُ",
  "ar_text_clean": "والسابقون الأولون من المهاجرين والأنصار والذين اتبعوهم بإحسان رضي الله عنهم ورضوا عنه وأعد لهم جنات تجري تحتها الأنهار خالدين فيها أبدا ذلك الفوز العظيم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "The vanguard (of Islam)- the first of those who forsook (their homes) and of those who gave them aid, and (also) those who follow them in (all) good deeds,- well-pleased is Allah with them, as are they with Him: for them hath He prepared gardens under which rivers flow, to dwell therein for ever: that is the supreme felicity.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And the first to lead the way, of the Muhajirin and the Ansar, and those who followed them in goodness - Allah is well pleased with them and they are well pleased with Him, and He hath made ready for them Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. That is the supreme triumph.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And (as for) the foremost, the first of the Muhajirs and the Ansars, and those who followed them in goodness, Allah is well pleased with them and they are well pleased with Him, and He has prepared for them gardens beneath which rivers flOw, to abide in them for ever; that is the mighty achievement.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And the first to embrace Islam of the Muhajirun (those who migrated from Makkah to Al- Madinah) and the Ansar (the citizens of Al- Madinah who helped and gave aid to the Muhajirun) and also those who followed them exactly (in Faith). Allah is well-pleased with them as they are well-pleased with Him. He has prepared for them Gardens under which rivers flow (Paradise), to dwell therein forever. That is the supreme success.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And the Muhajirs and Ansar, the leaders and the first ones and those who followed them in well-doing, --well-pleased is Allah with them, and well pleased are they with Him, and He hath gotten ready for them Gardens where under the rivers flow, as abiders therein forever. That is the achievement supreme.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "As for the first outstrippers among the migrants and supporters and those who followed them in doing good, Allah is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him. He has prepared for them gardens underneath which rivers flow, where they shall live for ever. That is the greatest winning.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And the Foremost, the First among the Emigrants and the Helpers, and those who followed them in a good way, God is pleased with them and they are pleased with Him, and He has prepared for them gardens underneath which rivers flow, to dwell therein forever and ever; that is the mighty triumph.",
  "en_tr_sher": "And as for the foremost among the believers, the first of the Emigrants and the Helpers, and those who followed them in the best possible manner, God is well-pleased with them and they are well-pleased with Him, and He has prepared for them Gardens underneath which streams flow. They will abide therein for ever. That is the supreme triumph.",
  "en_tr_asad": "And as for the first and foremost of those who have forsaken the domain of evil and of those who have sheltered and succoured the Faith, as well as those who follow them in [the way of] righteousness &ndash; God is well-pleased with them, and well-pleased are they with Him. And for them has He readied gardens through which running waters flow, therein to abide beyond the count of time: this is the triumph supreme!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "And the Outstrippers, the first of the Emigrants and the Helpers, and those who followed them in good-doing -- God will be well-pleased with them and they are well-pleased with Him; and He has prepared for them gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to dwell forever and ever; that is the mighty triumph.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Allah was pleased with those Muhajirs and Ansar who were the first to respond to the invitation to the Faith, and with those also who followed them in their righteous conduct, and they, too, were pleased with (the reward from) Allah; He has got ready for them gardens underneath which canals flow and they will abide therein for ever; this is the greatest success.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "The vanguard (of Islam){{1348}}- the first of those who forsook (their homes) and of those who gave them aid, and (also) those who follow them in (all) good deeds,- well- pleased is Allah with them, as are they with Him: for them hath He prepared gardens under which rivers flow{{1349}}, to dwell therein for ever: that is the supreme felicity.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And as for the first and foremost of those who have forsaken the domain of evil and of those who have sheltered and succoured the Faith,{{132}} as well as those who follow them in [the way of] righteousness - God is well-pleased with them, and well-pleased are they with Him. And for them has He readied gardens through which running waters flow, therein to abide beyond the count of time: this is the triumph supreme!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1348",
      "note": "The vanguard of Islam?those in the first rank?are those who dare and suffer for the Cause and never flinch. The first historical examples are the Muhajirs and the Ansar. The Muhajirs ?those who forsook their homes in Makkah and migrated to Madinah, the Holy Prophet being among the last to leave the post of danger, are mentioned first. Then come the Ansar, the Helpers, the citizens of Madinah who invited them, welcomed them, and gave them aid, and who formed the pivot of the new Community. Then are mentioned all who follow them in good deeds: not only the early heroes and ordinary men and women who had been Companions of the Prophet or had seen him, but men and women in all ages who have lived noble lives. In spite of all their sacrifices and suffering they rejoice in the precious gift of the Good Pleasure of Allah, and their Salvation is the Supreme Felicity which such Good Pleasure gives, symbolised by the Gardens of Heaven."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "1349",
      "note": "Note the description of the final accomplishment of the destiny of man. In mathematical science it would be like a letter or formula which would sum up a long course of reasoning. In this very Surah it occurs before in 9:72 and 9:89, where see n. 1341. (R)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "132",
      "note": "In the above context, the term muhajirun - lit., \"emigrants\", rendered by me as \"those who have forsaken the domain of evil\" (see surah 2, note 203, and surah 4, note 124) - applies primarily to the Meccan followers of the Prophet who migrated (hajaru) from Mecca to Medina - which until then was called Yathrib - at a time when Mecca was still in the possession of the enemies of Islam; the \"first and foremost\" among them were the earliest emigrants, i.e., those who left Mecca in or before the year 622 of the Christian era (which marks the beginning of the Islamic hijri era) and in the course of the next few years, when the Muslim community at Medina was still in danger of being overrun by the powerful Quraysh of Mecca. Similarly, the term ansar (lit., \"helpers\") applies here to the early converts from among the people of Medina who sheltered and succoured (nasaru) their brethren in faith - the \"first and foremost\" among them being those who embraced Islam before and shortly after the Prophet's and his Companions' exodus (hijrah) from Mecca, and particularly those who did so on the occasion of the two meetings, at Al-'Aqabah near Mecca, between the Prophet and deputations of the Yathrib tribes of Al-Aws and Khazraj (a little over a year and a few months, respectively, before the Prophet's hijrah). Apart, however, from their purely historical connotations, both the terms muhajirun and ansar bear in the Qur'an a spiritual meaning as well, and are often used to describe those who morally \"forsake the domain of evil\" and those who \"shelter and succour the Faith\" (see surah 8, note 78)."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The vanguard of Islam?those in the first rank?are those who dare and suffer for the Cause and never flinch. The first historical examples are the Muhajirs and the Ansar. The Muhajirs ?those who forsook their homes in Makkah and migrated to Madinah, the Holy Prophet being among the last to leave the post of danger, are mentioned first. Then come the Ansar, the Helpers, the citizens of Madinah who invited them, welcomed them, and gave them aid, and who formed the pivot of the new Community. Then are mentioned all who follow them in good deeds: not only the early heroes and ordinary men and women who had been Companions of the Prophet or had seen him, but men and women in all ages who have lived noble lives. In spite of all their sacrifices and suffering they rejoice in the precious gift of the Good Pleasure of Allah, and their Salvation is the Supreme Felicity which such Good Pleasure gives, symbolised by the Gardens of Heaven. Note the description of the final accomplishment of the destiny of man. In mathematical science it would be like a letter or formula which would sum up a long course of reasoning. In this very Surah it occurs before in 9:72 and 9:89, where see n. 1341. (R).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "In the above context, the term muhajirun - lit., \"emigrants\", rendered by me as \"those who have forsaken the domain of evil\" (see surah 2, note 203, and surah 4, note 124) - applies primarily to the Meccan followers of the Prophet who migrated (hajaru) from Mecca to Medina - which until then was called Yathrib - at a time when Mecca was still in the possession of the enemies of Islam; the \"first and foremost\" among them were the earliest emigrants, i.e., those who left Mecca in or before the year 622 of the Christian era (which marks the beginning of the Islamic hijri era) and in the course of the next few years, when the Muslim community at Medina was still in danger of being overrun by the powerful Quraysh of Mecca. Similarly, the term ansar (lit., \"helpers\") applies here to the early converts from among the people of Medina who sheltered and succoured (nasaru) their brethren in faith - the \"first and foremost\" among them being those who embraced Islam before and shortly after the Prophet's and his Companions' exodus (hijrah) from Mecca, and particularly those who did so on the occasion of the two meetings, at Al-'Aqabah near Mecca, between the Prophet and deputations of the Yathrib tribes of Al-Aws and Khazraj (a little over a year and a few months, respectively, before the Prophet's hijrah). Apart, however, from their purely historical connotations, both the terms muhajirun and ansar bear in the Qur'an a spiritual meaning as well, and are often used to describe those who morally \"forsake the domain of evil\" and those who \"shelter and succour the Faith\" (see surah 8, note 78).",
  "keywords": null
}