{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 9,
  "verse_no": 111,
  "ar_text": "إِنَّ اللَّهَ اشْتَرَىٰ مِنَ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ أَنْفُسَهُمْ وَأَمْوَالَهُمْ بِأَنَّ لَهُمُ الْجَنَّةَ يُقَاتِلُونَ فِي سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ فَيَقْتُلُونَ وَيُقْتَلُونَ وَعْدًا عَلَيْهِ حَقًّا فِي التَّوْرَاةِ وَالْإِنْجِيلِ وَالْقُرْآنِ وَمَنْ أَوْفَىٰ بِعَهْدِهِ مِنَ اللَّهِ فَاسْتَبْشِرُوا بِبَيْعِكُمُ الَّذِي بَايَعْتُمْ بِهِ وَذَٰلِكَ هُوَ الْفَوْزُ الْعَظِيمُ",
  "ar_text_clean": "إن الله اشترى من المؤمنين أنفسهم وأموالهم بأن لهم الجنة يقاتلون في سبيل الله فيقتلون ويقتلون وعدا عليه حقا في التوراة والإنجيل والقرآن ومن أوفى بعهده من الله فاستبشروا ببيعكم الذي بايعتم به وذلك هو الفوز العظيم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "Allah hath purchased of the believers their persons and their goods; for theirs (in return) is the garden (of Paradise): they fight in His cause, and slay and are slain: a promise binding on Him in truth, through the Law, the Gospel, and the Qur'an: and who is more faithful to his covenant than Allah? then rejoice in the bargain which ye have concluded: that is the achievement supreme.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "Lo! Allah hath bought from the believers their lives and their wealth because the Garden will be theirs: they shall fight in the way of Allah and shall slay and be slain. It is a promise which is binding on Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur'an. Who fulfilleth His covenant better than Allah? Rejoice then in your bargain that ye have made, for that is the supreme triumph.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "Surely Allah has bought of the believers their persons and their property for this, that they shall have the garden; they fight in Allah's way, so they slay and are slain; a promise which is binding on Him in the Taurat and the Injeel and the Quran; and who is more faithful to his covenant than Allah? Rejoice therefore in the pledge which you have made; and that is the mighty achievement.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "Verily, Allah has purchased of the believers their lives and their properties; for the price that theirs shall be the Paradise. They fight in Allah's Cause, so they kill (others) and are killed. It is a promise in truth which is binding on Him in the Taurat (Torah) and the Injeel (Gospel) and the Qur'an. And who is truer to his covenant than Allah? Then rejoice in the bargain which you have concluded. That is the supreme success.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "Verily Allah hath bought of the believers their lives and their riches for the price that theirs shall  be the Garden: they fight in the way of Allah and slay and are slain: a promise due thereon in the Taurat, in  the Injil - and the Qur'an-and who is more faithful unto his covenant than Allah? Rejoice wherefore in your bargain which ye have made. And that it is the mighty achievement.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Allah has purchased from the believers their selves and possessions, and for them is Paradise. They fight in the Way of Allah, slay, and are slain. That is a binding promise upon Him in the Torah, the Gospel and the Koran; and who is there that more truthfully fulfills his covenant than Allah? Therefore, rejoice in the bargain you have bargained with Him. That is the mighty winning.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "God has bought from the Believers their selves and their wealth that the Paradise should be theirs; they fight in the way of God, and they kill and are killed; it is a promise binding on Him in the Torah, the Gospel and the Qur'an; and who is more true in fulfilling his covenant than God? So rejoice in the bargain that you have made with Him, and that is the mighty triumph.",
  "en_tr_sher": "Surely, God has purchased of the believers their persons and their property in return for the heavenly Garden they shall have; they fight in the cause of God, and they slay and are slain -- an unfailing promise that He has made binding on Himself in the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Qur'?n. And who is more faithful to his promise than God? Rejoice, then, in your bargain which you have made with Him; and that is the mighty triumph.",
  "en_tr_asad": "BEHOLD, God has bought of the believers their lives and their possessions, promising them paradise in return, [and so] they fight in God's cause, and slay, and are slain: a promise which in truth He has willed upon Himself in [the words of] the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Qur'&#257;n. And who could be more faithful to his covenant than God? \nRejoice, then, in the bargain which you have made with Him: for this, this is the triumph supreme!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "God has bought from the believers their selves and their possessions against the gift of Paradise; they fight in the way of God; they kill, and are killed; that is a promise binding upon God in the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Koran; and who fulfils his covenant truer than God? So rejoice in the bargain you have made with Him; that is the mighty triumph.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "Indeed Allah has bought from the Believers their persons and their possessions in return for the Gardens;{{106}} they fight in the Way of Allah, kill and are killed. This promise (of the Gardens) is the true pledge of Allah made in the Torah, the Gospel, and the Qur'an,{{107}} and who is more true in fulfilling his promise than Allah? So rejoice in the bargain you have made with Him; and this is the greatest success.",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "Allah hath purchased of the believers their persons and their goods; for theirs (in return) is the garden (of Paradise):{{1361}} they fight in His cause, and slay and are slain: a promise binding on Him in truth, through the Law, the Gospel, and the Qur?an:{{1362}} and who is more faithful to his covenant than Allah. then rejoice in the bargain which ye have concluded: that is the achievement supreme.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "BEHOLD, God has bought of the believers their lives and their possessions, promising them paradise in return, [and so] they fight in God's cause, and slay, and are slain: a promise which in truth He has willed upon Himself in [the words of] the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Qur'an. And who could be more faithful to his covenant than God? Rejoice, then, in the bargain which you have made with Him: for this, this is the triumph supreme!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1361",
      "note": "In a human bargain both sides give something and receive some advantage. In the divine bargain of Allah with man, Allah takes man's will and soul and his wealth and goods, and gives him in return everlasting Felicity. Man fights in Allah's Cause and carries out His will. All that he has to give up is the ephemeral things of this world, while he gains eternal salvation, the fulfilment of his highest spiritual hopes-a supreme achievement indeed (Cf. 61:10-12)."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "1362",
      "note": "We offer our whole selves and our possessions to Allah, and Allah gives us Salvation. This is the true doctrine of redemption; and we are taught that this is the doctrine not only of the Qur'an but of the earlier Revelations-the original Law of Moses and the original Gospel of Jesus. Any other view of redemption is rejected by Islam, especially that of corrupted Christianity, which thinks that some other person suffered for our sins and we are redeemed by his blood. It is our self-surrender that counts, not other people's merits. Our complete self-surrender may include fighting for the cause, both spiritually and physically. As regards actual fighting with the sword there has been some difference in theological theories at different times, but very little in the practice of those who framed those theories. The Jewish wars were ruthless wars of extermination. The Old Testament does not mince matters on the subject. In the New Testament St. Paul, in commending the worthy fruits of Faith, mentions Gideon, Barak, and other warriors of the Old Testament as his ideals, \"Who through faith subdued kingdoms . . . waxed valiant in fight, turned to fight the armies of the aliens . . .\" (Hebrews, 11:32-34). The monkish morality of the Gospels in their present form has never been followed by any self-respecting Christian or other nation in history. Nor is it common sense to ignore lust of blood in unregenerate man as a form of evil which has to be combatted \"within the limits set by Allah\" (9:112). (R)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": null,
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "In a human bargain both sides give something and receive some advantage. In the divine bargain of Allah with man, Allah takes man's will and soul and his wealth and goods, and gives him in return everlasting Felicity. Man fights in Allah's Cause and carries out His will. All that he has to give up is the ephemeral things of this world, while he gains eternal salvation, the fulfilment of his highest spiritual hopes-a supreme achievement indeed (Cf. 61:10-12). We offer our whole selves and our possessions to Allah, and Allah gives us Salvation. This is the true doctrine of redemption; and we are taught that this is the doctrine not only of the Qur'an but of the earlier Revelations-the original Law of Moses and the original Gospel of Jesus. Any other view of redemption is rejected by Islam, especially that of corrupted Christianity, which thinks that some other person suffered for our sins and we are redeemed by his blood. It is our self-surrender that counts, not other people's merits. Our complete self-surrender may include fighting for the cause, both spiritually and physically. As regards actual fighting with the sword there has been some difference in theological theories at different times, but very little in the practice of those who framed those theories. The Jewish wars were ruthless wars of extermination. The Old Testament does not mince matters on the subject. In the New Testament St. Paul, in commending the worthy fruits of Faith, mentions Gideon, Barak, and other warriors of the Old Testament as his ideals, \"Who through faith subdued kingdoms . . . waxed valiant in fight, turned to fight the armies of the aliens . . .\" (Hebrews, 11:32-34). The monkish morality of the Gospels in their present form has never been followed by any self-respecting Christian or other nation in history. Nor is it common sense to ignore lust of blood in unregenerate man as a form of evil which has to be combatted \"within the limits set by Allah\" (9:112). (R).",
  "en_snotes_asad": null,
  "keywords": null
}