{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 9,
  "verse_no": 3,
  "ar_text": "وَأَذَانٌ مِنَ اللَّهِ وَرَسُولِهِ إِلَى النَّاسِ يَوْمَ الْحَجِّ الْأَكْبَرِ أَنَّ اللَّهَ بَرِيءٌ مِنَ الْمُشْرِكِينَ وَرَسُولُهُ فَإِنْ تُبْتُمْ فَهُوَ خَيْرٌ لَكُمْ وَإِنْ تَوَلَّيْتُمْ فَاعْلَمُوا أَنَّكُمْ غَيْرُ مُعْجِزِي اللَّهِ وَبَشِّرِ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا بِعَذَابٍ أَلِيمٍ",
  "ar_text_clean": "وأذان من الله ورسوله إلى الناس يوم الحج الأكبر أن الله بريء من المشركين ورسوله فإن تبتم فهو خير لكم وإن توليتم فاعلموا أنكم غير معجزي الله وبشر الذين كفروا بعذاب أليم",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "And an announcement from Allah and His Messenger, to the people (assembled) on the day of the Great Pilgrimage,- that Allah and His Messenger dissolve (treaty) obligations with the Pagans. If then, ye repent, it were best for you; but if ye turn away, know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah. And proclaim a grievous penalty to those who reject Faith.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "And a proclamation from Allah and His messenger to all men on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage that Allah is free from obligation to the idolaters, and (so is) His messenger. So, if ye repent, it will be better for you; but if ye are averse, then know that ye cannot escape Allah. Give tidings (O Muhammad) of a painful doom to those who disbelieve,",
  "en_tr_shakir": "And an announcement from Allah and His Messenger to the people on the day of the greater pilgrimage that Allah and His Messenger are free from liability to the idolaters; therefore if you repent, it will be better for you, and if you turn back, then know that you will not weaken Allah; and announce painful punishment to those who disbelieve.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "And a declaration from Allah and His Messenger to mankind on the greatest day (the 10th of Dhul- Hijjah - the 12th month of Islamic calendar) that Allah is free from (all) obligations to the Mushrikun (see V.2:105) and so is His Messenger. So if you (Mushrikun) repent, it is better for you, but if you turn away, then know that you cannot escape (from the Punishment of) Allah. And give tidings (O Muhammad SAW) of a painful torment to those who disbelieve.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "And a proclamation is this from Allah and His apostle unto the mankind on the day of the greater pilgrimage that Allah is quit of the associators, and so is His apostle. Wherefore if ye repent, it shall be better for you,but if ye turn away, then know that ye cannot escape Allah. And announce thou unto those who disbelieve a torment afflictive.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "A proclamation from Allah and His Messenger, to the people on the day of the Grand Pilgrimage; 'Allah rejects, and His Messenger (rejects) the idolaters. So if you repent, that will be better for you; but if you turn your backs, know that you cannot frustrate Allah. And give glad tidings to the unbelievers of a painful punishment,",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "And it is a Proclamation from God and His Messenger unto mankind, on the day of the Great Pilgrimage: `God is quit and His Messenger of the idolaters. So if you repent, it will be good for you; but if you turn away, then know that you cannot frustrate God'. And give thou good news of a painful punishment to the unbelievers;",
  "en_tr_sher": "And this is a proclamation from God and His Messenger to the people on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage, that God is clear of idolaters, and so is His Messenger. So if you repent, it will be better for you; but if you turn away, then know that you cannot frustrate the plan of God. And give tidings of a painful punishment to those who disbelieve,",
  "en_tr_asad": "And a proclamation from God and His Apostle [is herewith made] unto all mankind on this day of the Greatest Pilgrimage: \"God disavows all who ascribe divinity to aught beside Him, and [so does] His Apostle. Hence, if you repent, it shall be for your own good; and if you turn away, then know that you can never elude God!\" \nAnd unto those who are bent on denying the truth give thou [O Prophet] the tiding of grievous chastisement.",
  "en_tr_arberry": "A proclamation, from God and His Messenger, unto mankind on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage: God is quit, and His Messenger, of the idolaters. So if you repent, that will be better for you; but if you turn your backs; know that you cannot frustrate the will of God. And give thou good tidings to the unbelievers of a painful chastisement;",
  "en_tr_maududi": "This is a public proclamation from Allah and His Messenger for all the people on the Day of Great Haj:{{4}} Allah is free from the treaty obligations made with the mushriks and so is His Messenger. If, therefore, you repent now, it is better for you but if you turn away, you should know it well that you cannot frustrate (the Will of Allah). And, O Prophet, give the good news of a painful chastisement to the rejecters",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "And an announcement from Allah and His Messenger, to the people (assembled) on the day of the Great Pilgrimage,-{{1248}} that Allah and His Messenger dissolve (treaty) obligations with the Pagans. If then, ye repent, it were best for you; but if ye turn away, know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah. And proclaim a grievous penalty to those who reject Faith.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "And a proclamation from God and His Apostle [is herewith made] unto all mankind on this day of the Greatest Pilgrimage:{{3}} \"God disavows all who ascribe divinity to aught beside Him, and [so does] His Apostle. Hence, if you repent, it shall be for your own good; and if you turn away, then know that you can never elude God!\" And unto those who are bent on denying the truth give thou [O Prophet] the tiding of grievous chastisement.",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1248",
      "note": "The great day of Hajj is either the 9th of Dhu al Hijjah, ('Arafah),or the 10th (the Day of Sacrifice)."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "3",
      "note": "There is no unanimity among the commentators as to what is meant by \"the day of the Greatest Pilgrimage\". Most of them assume that it refers to the pilgrimage in the year 9 H., in which the Prophet himself did not participate, having entrusted Abu Bakr with the office of amir al-hajj. This very fact, however, makes it improbable that the designation \"the Greatest Pilgrimage\" should have been given in the Qur'an to this particular pilgrimage. On the other hand, there exists a Tradition on the authority of 'Abd Allah ibn 'Umar to the effect that the Prophet described in these very words the last pilgrimage led by himself in 10 H. and known to history as the Farewell Pilgrimage (Zamakhshari, Razi); one may, therefore, assume that it is this which is alluded to here. If this assumption is correct, it would justify the conclusion that verses 3 and 4 of this surah were revealed during the Farewell Pilgrimage, i.e., shortly before the Prophet's death. This might explain the - otherwise perplexing - statement, reliably attributed to the Prophet's Companion Al-Bard' (Bukhari, Kitab at-Tafsir), that At-Tawbah was the last surah revealed to the Prophet: for, although it is established beyond any doubt that the surah as a whole was revealed in 9 H. and was followed by several other parts of the Qur'an, e.g., Al-Ma'idah, it is possible that what Al-Bard' had in mind were only these two key-verses (3 and 4) of At-Tawbah, which conceivably were revealed during the Farewell Pilgrimage."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The great day of Hajj is either the 9th of Dhu al Hijjah, ('Arafah),or the 10th (the Day of Sacrifice).",
  "en_snotes_asad": "There is no unanimity among the commentators as to what is meant by \"the day of the Greatest Pilgrimage\". Most of them assume that it refers to the pilgrimage in the year 9 H., in which the Prophet himself did not participate, having entrusted Abu Bakr with the office of amir al-hajj. This very fact, however, makes it improbable that the designation \"the Greatest Pilgrimage\" should have been given in the Qur'an to this particular pilgrimage. On the other hand, there exists a Tradition on the authority of 'Abd Allah ibn 'Umar to the effect that the Prophet described in these very words the last pilgrimage led by himself in 10 H. and known to history as the Farewell Pilgrimage (Zamakhshari, Razi); one may, therefore, assume that it is this which is alluded to here. If this assumption is correct, it would justify the conclusion that verses 3 and 4 of this surah were revealed during the Farewell Pilgrimage, i.e., shortly before the Prophet's death. This might explain the - otherwise perplexing - statement, reliably attributed to the Prophet's Companion Al-Bard' (Bukhari, Kitab at-Tafsir), that At-Tawbah was the last surah revealed to the Prophet: for, although it is established beyond any doubt that the surah as a whole was revealed in 9 H. and was followed by several other parts of the Qur'an, e.g., Al-Ma'idah, it is possible that what Al-Bard' had in mind were only these two key-verses (3 and 4) of At-Tawbah, which conceivably were revealed during the Farewell Pilgrimage.",
  "keywords": null
}