{
  "type": "Verse",
  "surah_no": 9,
  "verse_no": 38,
  "ar_text": "يَا أَيُّهَا الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا مَا لَكُمْ إِذَا قِيلَ لَكُمُ انْفِرُوا فِي سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ اثَّاقَلْتُمْ إِلَى الْأَرْضِ أَرَضِيتُمْ بِالْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا مِنَ الْآخِرَةِ فَمَا مَتَاعُ الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا فِي الْآخِرَةِ إِلَّا قَلِيلٌ",
  "ar_text_clean": "يا أيها الذين آمنوا ما لكم إذا قيل لكم انفروا في سبيل الله اثاقلتم إلى الأرض أرضيتم بالحياة الدنيا من الآخرة فما متاع الحياة الدنيا في الآخرة إلا قليل",
  "en_tr_yusuf": "O ye who believe! what is the matter with you, that, when ye are asked to go forth in the cause of Allah, ye cling heavily to the earth? Do ye prefer the life of this world to the Hereafter? But little is the comfort of this life, as compared with the Hereafter.",
  "en_tr_pickth": "O ye who believe! What aileth you that when it is said unto you: Go forth in the way of Allah, ye are bowed down to the ground with heaviness. Take ye pleasure in the life of the world rather than in the Hereafter? The comfort of the life of the world is but little in the Hereafter.",
  "en_tr_shakir": "O you who believe! What (excuse) have you that when it is said to you: Go forth in Allah's way, you should incline heavily to earth; are you contented with this world's life instead of the hereafter? But the provision of this world's life compared with the hereafter is but little.",
  "en_tr_hilali": "O you who believe! What is the matter with you, that when you are asked to march forth in the Cause of Allah (i.e. Jihad) you cling heavily to the earth? Are you pleased with the life of this world rather than the Hereafter? But little is the enjoyment of the life of this world as compared with the Hereafter.",
  "en_tr_dbadi": "O Ye who believe! what aileth you that when it is said unto you: march forth in the way of Allah, ye are weighed down earthward? Are ye pleased with the life of the world rather than the Hereafter? whereas the enjoyment of the life of the world by the side of the Hereafter is but little.",
  "en_tr_qarib": "Believers, why is it that when it is said to you: 'March in the Way of Allah, ' you linger with heaviness in the land? Are you content with this life rather than theEverlasting Life? Yet the enjoyment of this life in (comparison to) the Everlasting Life is little.",
  "en_tr_ayubk": "O Believers, how is it with you that when it is said to you, `go forth in the way of God', you sink down heavily to the earth? Are you contented with the present life against the Hereafter? But the goods of the present life against the Hereafter are only little things.",
  "en_tr_sher": "O ye who believe; what is the matter with you that, when it is said to you, go forth in the way of God, you sink down heavily towards the earth? Are you contented with the present life in the preference to the Hereafter? But the enjoyment of the present life is but little compared to the Hereafter.",
  "en_tr_asad": "O YOU who have attained to faith! What is amiss with you that, when you are called upon, \"Go forth to war in God's cause,\" you cling heavily to the earth? Would you content yourselves with [the comforts of] this worldly life in preference to [the good of] the life to come? But the enjoyment of life in this world is but a paltry thing when compared with the life to come!",
  "en_tr_arberry": "O believers, what is amiss with you, that when it is said to you, Go forth in the way of God, you sink down heavily to the ground? Are you so content with this present life, rather than the world to come? Yet the enjoyment of this present life, compared with the world to come, is a little thing.",
  "en_tr_maududi": "O{{38}} you who believed! what was amiss with you that, when you were asked to march forth on the Way of Allah, you clung to the earth? What! did you prefer the life of this world to the life of the Hereafter? If it is so, you should know that all these goods of this worldly life will prove to be but little in the Hereafter.{{39}}",
  "en_ctr_yusuf": "O ye who believe! what is the matter with you,{{1299}} that, when ye are asked to go forth in the cause of Allah, ye cling heavily to the earth?{{1300}} Do ye prefer the life of this world to the Hereafter? But little is the comfort of this life, as compared with the Hereafter.",
  "en_ctr_asad": "O YOU who have attained to faith! What is amiss with you that, when you are called upon, \"Go forth to war in God's cause,\" you cling heavily to the earth?{{59}} Would you content yourselves with [the comforts of] this worldly life in preference to [the good of] the life to come? But the enjoyment of life in this world is but a paltry thing when compared with the life to come!",
  "en_notes_yusuf": [
    {
      "note_no": "1299",
      "note": "The immediate reference is to the expedition to Tabuk (A.H. 9), for which see the Introduction to this Surah. But the lesson is perfectly general. When a call is made on behalf of a great cause, the fortunate ones are those who have the privilege of responding to the call. The unfortunate ones are those who are so engrossed in their parochial affairs that they turn a deaf ear to the appeal. They are suffering from a spiritual disease."
    },
    {
      "note_no": "1300",
      "note": "(Cf. 13:26). The choice is between two courses: will you choose a noble adventure and the glorious privilege of following your spiritual leader, or grovel in the earth for some small worldly gain or for fear of worldly loss? The people who hesitated to follow the call of TabTik were deterred by (1) the heat of the summer, in which the expedition was undertaken on account of the threat to the existence of the little community, and (2) the fear of losing the fruit harvest, which was ripe for gathering."
    }
  ],
  "en_notes_asad": [
    {
      "note_no": "59",
      "note": "I.e., \"you are sluggish in your response, clinging to the life of this world\". This verse - as well as most of this surah from here onward - alludes to the campaign of Tabuk, in the year 9 H. The immediate reason for this expedition was the information which the Prophet received to the effect that the Byzantines, made apprehensive by the rapid growth of Islam in Arabia and incited by the Prophet's enemy Abu Amir (see note 142 on verse 107 of this surah), were assembling large forces on the confines of the Peninsula with a view to marching against Medina and overthrowing the Muslims. To guard against such an assault, the Prophet assembled the strongest force the Muslims were capable of, and set out in the month of Rajab, 9 H., towards the frontier. On reaching Tabuk, about half-way between Medina and Damascus, the Prophet ascertained that the Byzantines were either not yet ready to invade Arabia or had entirely given up the idea for the time being; and so - in accordance with the Islamic principle that war may be waged only in self-defence - he returned with his followers to Medina without engaging in hostilities. At the time of the preparation for this expedition, the hypocrites and a minority among the believers displayed an extreme reluctance (referred to in this and the following verses) to embark on a war with Byzantium: and it is this minority that the above verse reproaches for \"clinging heavily to the earth\" (Manar X, 493)."
    }
  ],
  "en_snotes_yusuf": "The immediate reference is to the expedition to Tabuk (A.H. 9), for which see the Introduction to this Surah. But the lesson is perfectly general. When a call is made on behalf of a great cause, the fortunate ones are those who have the privilege of responding to the call. The unfortunate ones are those who are so engrossed in their parochial affairs that they turn a deaf ear to the appeal. They are suffering from a spiritual disease. (Cf. 13:26). The choice is between two courses: will you choose a noble adventure and the glorious privilege of following your spiritual leader, or grovel in the earth for some small worldly gain or for fear of worldly loss? The people who hesitated to follow the call of TabTik were deterred by (1) the heat of the summer, in which the expedition was undertaken on account of the threat to the existence of the little community, and (2) the fear of losing the fruit harvest, which was ripe for gathering.",
  "en_snotes_asad": "I.e., \"you are sluggish in your response, clinging to the life of this world\". This verse - as well as most of this surah from here onward - alludes to the campaign of Tabuk, in the year 9 H. The immediate reason for this expedition was the information which the Prophet received to the effect that the Byzantines, made apprehensive by the rapid growth of Islam in Arabia and incited by the Prophet's enemy Abu Amir (see note 142 on verse 107 of this surah), were assembling large forces on the confines of the Peninsula with a view to marching against Medina and overthrowing the Muslims. To guard against such an assault, the Prophet assembled the strongest force the Muslims were capable of, and set out in the month of Rajab, 9 H., towards the frontier. On reaching Tabuk, about half-way between Medina and Damascus, the Prophet ascertained that the Byzantines were either not yet ready to invade Arabia or had entirely given up the idea for the time being; and so - in accordance with the Islamic principle that war may be waged only in self-defence - he returned with his followers to Medina without engaging in hostilities. At the time of the preparation for this expedition, the hypocrites and a minority among the believers displayed an extreme reluctance (referred to in this and the following verses) to embark on a war with Byzantium: and it is this minority that the above verse reproaches for \"clinging heavily to the earth\" (Manar X, 493).",
  "keywords": null
}